>> Woodruff: THE U.S.  RUSISHING
MISSILES AND SURVEILLAE DRNCONES
TO IRAQ AFTER A SURGE OF
VIOLENCE FROM AL-QAEDA-LINKED
INSURGENTS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS OFF THIS THURSDAY.
ALSO AHEAD:
FROM THE SHADOWS TO THE
SPOTLIGHT-- WE LOOK BACK AT U.S.
GOVERNMENT SPYING PROGRAMS
REVEALED IN 2013;
PLUS, A BATTLE OVER KEEPING THE
WATERS OF LAKE TAHOE CLEAR.
>> THE BLUENESS COMES IN
LARGE PART FROM JUST THE
INCREDIBLE CLEANLINESS OF
IT.
AND THE TRICK IS HOW DO WE
KEEP THAT QUALITY AND KEEP
USING IT.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: AMERICAN RETAILERS
OPENED THEIR AFTER-CHRISTMAS
OFFENSIVES TODAY, HOPING TO
SALVAGE THE SEASON.
PRE-CHRISTMAS SALES HAVE BEEN
DOWN FROM A YEAR AGO.
MEANWHILE, UPS AND FEDERAL
EXPRESS FACED ANGRY COMPLAINTS
AFTER THOUSANDS OF GIFTS FAILED
TO ARRIVE FOR CHRISTMAS.
THE COMPANIES BLAMED BAD WEATHER
AND TOO MANY LAST-MINUTE ORDERS.
THE DOW JONES AVERAGE GAINED
132 POINTS.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 11
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4167.
THE UNITED STATES HAS BEGUN
SENDING NEW WEAPONS TO IRAQ
TO BATTLE RENEWED
VIOLENCE BY AL-QAEDA MILITANTS.
REPORTS TODAY SAID THE WEAPONS
INCLUDE SURVEILLANCE DRONES AND
HELLFIRE MISSILES.
WE'LL GET MORE DETAILS ON THE
U.S. ASSISTANCE AND WHAT IT
MEANS RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
AN AMERICAN KIDNAPPED IN
PAKISTAN TWO YEARS AGO PLEADED
TODAY FOR PRESIDENT OBAMA TO
NEGOTIATE HIS RELEASE.
72-YEAR-OLD WARREN WEINSTEIN WAS
TAKEN FROM HIS HOME IN LAHORE IN
AUGUST OF 2011.
HIS AL-QAEDA CAPTORS RELEASED A
VIDEO MESSAGE FROM TODAY, THE
FIRST IN MORE THAN A YEAR.
>> NINE YEARS AGO I CAME TO
PAKISTAN TO HELP MY
GOVERNMENT.
AND I DID SO AT A TIME WHEN
MOST AMERICANS WOULD NOT
COME HERE.
AND NOW WHEN I NEED MY
GOVERNMENT, IT SEEMS THAT I
HAVE BEEN TOTALLY ABANDONED.
AND FORGOTTEN.
>> Woodruff: AL-QAEDA HAS
DEMANDED THE U.S. HALT AIR
STRIKES IN AFGHANISTAN,
PAKISTAN, SOMALIA AND YEMEN, AND
RELEASE AL-QAEDA SUSPECTS AROUND
THE WORLD.
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS INSISTED IT
WILL NOT NEGOTIATE.
AFRICAN LEADERS ARRIVED IN SOUTH
SUDAN TODAY, TRYING TO BROKER AN
END TO NEARLY TWO WEEKS OF
FIGHTING.
THE PRESIDENT OF KENYA AND THE
PRIME MINISTER OF ETHIOPIA FLEW
INTO JU, THBAE SOUTH SUDANESE
CAPITAL.
LATER, THEY MET WITH SOUTH
SUDANESE PRESIDENT SALVA KIIR.
MEANWHILE, A U.N. ENVOY SAID
ADDITIONAL PEACEKEEPERS SHOULD
ARRIVE WITHIN 48 HOURS.
NEXT DOOR TO SOUTH SUDAN, SIX
AFRICAN UNION PEACEKEEPERS HAVE
DIED IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC.
THE SOLDIERS WERE FROM CHAD.
THE A.U. SAYS THE GROUP WAS
ATTACKED ON CHRISTMAS DAY BY A
CHRISTIAN MILITIA IN THE CAPITAL
CITY OF BANGUI.
THE COUNTRY'S MAJORITY
CHRISTIANS ACCUSE THE CHADIAN
TROOPS OF SUPPORTING FELLOW
MUSLIMS WHO SEIZED POWER NINE
MONTHS AGO.
IN THAILAND, THE GOVERNMENT
REJECTED CALLS TO DELAY
ELECTIONS NOW SET FOR FEBRUARY
AFTER STREET BATTLES ERUPTED IN
BANGKOK.
A POLICE OFFICER WAS KILLED AND
HUNDREDS INJURED AS ANTI-
GOVERNMENT PROTESTERS FOUGHT
WITH POLICE.
THE DEMONSTRATORS THREW ROCKS
AND BRICKS AT POLICE, WHO FIRED
BACK WITH TEAR GAS AND RUBBER
BULLETS.
PROTESTS IN UKRAINE GAINED NEW
INTENSITY TODAY AFTER AN
OPPOSITION JOURNALIST WAS
BRUTALLY BEATEN.
TETYANA CHORNOVIL WAS CHASED
DOWN IN HER CAR LATE LAST NIGHT
AND ATTACKED BY SEVERAL
ASSAILANTS.
TODAY, THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
SURROUNDED THE INTERIOR MINISTRY
IN KIEV, HOLDING PICTURES OF
CHORNOVIL AND DEMANDING JUSTICE.
>> I'VE BEEN EXPECTING FOR A
LONG TIME THAT THEY WILL DO
SOMETHING THAT WILL WAKE
EVERYBODY UP AND MAKE PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND THAT THEY CANNOT
LIVE LIKE THIS ANY MORE.
WE DO NOT DESERVE SUCH
TREATMENT.
THEY DON'T HAVE ANY RIGHT TO
BEAT PEOPLE UP.
IGNORE US.
THEY DON'T HAVE ANY RIGHT TO
>> THE PROTESTS BEGAN AFTER
IGNORE US.
THE GOVERNMENT REJECTED
>> THE PROTESTS BEGAN AFTER
CLOSER TIES WITH
THE GOVERNMENT REJECTED
THE EUROPEAN UNION, TURNING
CLOSER TIES WITH
INSTEAD TO RUSSIA.
THE EUROPEAN UNION, TURNING
A TRUCE WAS IN EFFECT TODAY IN A
INSTEAD TO RUSSIA.
REBEL SUBURB OF DAMASCUS, SYRIA,
A TRUCE WAS IN EFFECT TODAY IN A
TO ALLOW IN SUPPLIES OF FOOD AND
REBEL SUBURB OF DAMASCUS, SYRIA,
MEDICINE.
TO ALLOW IN SUPPLIES OF FOOD AND
THE SYRIAN MILITARY AGREED TO
MEDICINE.
THE HALT IN FIGHTING AFTER THE
THE SYRIAN MILITARY AGREED TO
REBELS AGREED TO HAND OVER HEAVY
THE HALT IN FIGHTING AFTER THE
WEAPONS ANRAISD E THE SYRIAN
REBELS AGREED TO HAND OVER HEAVY
FLAG.
WEAPONS ANRAISD E THE SYRIAN
LOCALS SAY THEY'D BEEN SHELLED
FLAG.
AND STARVED FOR NEARLY A YEAR.
LOCALS SAY THEY'D BEEN SHELLED
A PENNSYLVANIA APPEALS COURT HAS
AND STARVED FOR NEARLY A YEAR.
OVERTURNED THE CONVICTION OF
A PENNSYLVANIA APPEALS COURT HAS
MONSIGNOR WILLIAM LYNN FOR
OVERTURNED THE CONVICTION OF
MISHANDLING A SEX-ABUSE SCANDAL.
MONSIGNOR WILLIAM LYNN FOR
HE WAS THE FIRST ROMAN CATHOLIC
MISHANDLING A SEX-ABUSE SCANDAL.
CHURCH OFFICIAL CONVICTED OF
HE WAS THE FIRST ROMAN CATHOLIC
MOVING PREDATOR PRIESTS FROM ONE
CHURCH OFFICIAL CONVICTED OF
PARISH TO ANOTHER, BUT THE COURT
MOVING PREDATOR PRIESTS FROM ONE
RULED HE CANNOT BE HELD LEGALLY
PARISH TO ANOTHER, BUT THE COURT
RESPONSIBLE.
RULED HE CANNOT BE HELD LEGALLY
FOR NOW, LYNN REMAINS IN PRISON.
RESPONSIBLE.
PROSECUTORS PROMISE TO APPEAL
FOR NOW, LYNN REMAINS IN PRISON.
TODAY'S RULING.
PROSECUTORS PROMISE TO APPEAL
THE ALLEGED GUNMAN IN THE
TODAY'S RULING.
SHOOTINGS AT LOS ANGELES
THE ALLEGED GUNMAN IN THE
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PLEADED
SHOOTINGS AT LOS ANGELES
NOT GUILTY TODAY.
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PLEADED
PAUL ANTHONY CIANCIA IS CHARGED
NOT GUILTY TODAY.
WITH THE MURDER OF A SECURITY
PAUL ANTHONY CIANCIA IS CHARGED
SCREENER AND OTHER FELONIES.
WITH THE MURDER OF A SECURITY
AUTHORITIES SAY HE HAD A GRUDGE
SCREENER AND OTHER FELONIES.
AGAINST THE TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITIES SAY HE HAD A GRUDGE
SAFETY ADMINISTRATION.
AGAINST THE TRANSPORTATION
HIS FEDERAL TRIAL IS SET FOR
SAFETY ADMINISTRATION.
FEBRUARY 11.
HIS FEDERAL TRIAL IS SET FOR
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED THE
FEBRUARY 11.
BIPARTISAN BUDGET DEAL TODAY ON
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED THE
HIS HOLIDAY VACATION IN HAWAII.
BIPARTISAN BUDGET DEAL TODAY ON
THE BILL RESTORES SOME OF THE
HIS HOLIDAY VACATION IN HAWAII.
AUTOMATIC SPENDING CUTS IN
THE BILL RESTORES SOME OF THE
DEFENSE AND DOMESTIC PROGRAMS.
AUTOMATIC SPENDING CUTS IN
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SIGNED A
DEFENSE AND DOMESTIC PROGRAMS.
DEFENSE BILL THAT INCLUDES A
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SIGNED A
MILITARY PAY RAISE AND NEW RULES
DEFENSE BILL THAT INCLUDES A
GOVERNING SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES.
MILITARY PAY RAISE AND NEW RULES
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
GOVERNING SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES.
THE U.S. RUSHES MILITARY AID TO
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
IRAQ;
THE U.S. RUSHES MILITARY AID TO
WORRIES ABOUT THE WATERS OF LAKE
IRAQ;
TAHOE;
WORRIES ABOUT THE WATERS OF LAKE
HOW GOVERNMENT SPYING MOVED FROM
TAHOE;
THE SHADOWS TO THE SPOTLIGHT;
HOW GOVERNMENT SPYING MOVED FROM
JOURNALIST GEORGE PACKER ON
THE SHADOWS TO THE SPOTLIGHT;
INEQUALITY IN AMERICA;
JOURNALIST GEORGE PACKER ON
PLUS, DIGNITY FOR THOSE WHO
INEQUALITY IN AMERICA;
LIVED AND DIED IN SOCIETY'S
PLUS, DIGNITY FOR THOSE WHO
MARGINS.
TWO YEARS AFTER U.S. TROOPS LEFT
IRAQ, ITS GOVERNMENT IS BATTLING
SUNNI MUSLIM EXTREMISTS, AND NOW
THE PENTAGON IS SENDING OVER
FIRE POWER TO HELP IN THE FIGHT.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> Reporter: SCENES OF CARNAGE
HAVE BECOME ALL TOO COMMON FOR
THE PEOPLE OF IRAQ THIS YEAR.
ALL TOLD, THE UNITED NATIONS
ESTIMATES, MORE THAN 8000 IRAQIS
HAVE DIED IN A SURGE OF VIOLENCE
NOT SEEN SINCE AT LEAST 2008.
THE LATEST CAME CHRISTMAS DAY
WHEN AT LEAST 37 PEOPLE DIED IN
CAR BOMBINGS THAT TARGETED
CHRISTIAN AREAS OF BAGHDAD.
NOW, "THE NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTS, THE
U.S. IS RUSHING TO BOLSTER
IRAQ'S ABILITY TO BATTLE AL-
QAEDA INSURGENTS BEHIND MANY OF
THE ATTACKS.
IRAQI PRIME MINISTER NURI AL-
MALIKI APPEALED FOR THE HELP
WHEN HE MET WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
IN WASHINGTON TWO MONTHS AGO.
DURING THAT SAME VISIT, HE
DETAILED HIS NATION'S DILEMMA.
>> ( translated ): TERRORISTS
CAME BACK TO IRAQ WHEN THE
CONFLICT STARTED IN SYRIA.
GROUPS LIKE AL-QAIDA AND THE
NUSRA FRONT FOUND THERE'S
ANOTHER CHANCE TO BENEFIT FROM
THE POLITICAL CONFLICT AND
CREATE TERROR IN IRAQ.
SO, THE TERRORISTS FOUND A
SECOND CHANCE.
THE U.S. ASSISTANCE BEING SENT
TO BAGHDAD INCLUDES:
"HELLFIRE" MISSILES TO
SUPPLEMENT THE IRAQI
GOVERNMENT'S NEARLY EXHAUSTED
SUPPLY.
AND "SCAN-EAGLE" RECONNAISSANCE
DRONES TO HELP MAP AND TRACK THE
MILITANT NETWORK.
THEY'LL BE CONCENTRATED IN
IRAQ'S WESTERN DESERT, NEAR THE
SYRIAN BORDER REGION.
>> WELL, THEY DO NEED THE
WEAPONS, WHAT THEY NEED IS
THE CAPABLE.
BECAUSE IRAQ HAS A
SUBSTANTIAL GROUND FORCE AND
POLICE FORCE.
BUT WHAT THEY REALLY LACK IS
THE CAPABILITY TO GO AFTER
MOBILE TERRORIST TARGETS.
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
WESTERN AND NORTHERN IRAQ IS
AL QAEDA OF IRAQ HAS
RECONSTITUTED ITSELF UNDER
ANOTHER BANNER AND IT'S
MOVING AROUND IN CARAVANS.
IT'S TAKING OVER TOWNS AND
CITIES, INTIMIDATING THE
POPULATION AND EVEN HAS
TRAINING CAMPS AND STAGING
AREAS IN WESTERN IRAQ.
AN WITH THAT AN AIR TO
GROUND CAPABILITY WHICH
THEY'VE HAVE VERY LIMIT ONE,
THEY CAN'T TAKE ON THIS
THREAT TOO WELL.
>> IS WHAT WE'RE GIVING THEM
ENOUGH?
>> THERE'S A GOOD QUESTION
ABOUT THAT.
I THINK WHAT WE'RE GIVING
THEM IS PROBABLY NOT ENOUGH.
IT'S PROBABLY WHAT EACH
POLITICAL SYSTEM ALLOWS.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU REALLY
WANTED TO GO AFTER THIS
THREAT IN A SERIOUS WAY, IF
AMERICAN FORCES WERE STILL
IN IRAQ, FOR EXAMPLE, WITH
AIR AND GROUND FORCES, WHAT
YOU WOULD DO IS GO AFTER
THEM WITH AIR STRIKES,
ATTACK HELICOPTERS.
E WORLD AS A PERFECTDRONESSE
TARGET FOR THAT IT'S AN AL
QAEDA FRANCHISE, AFTER ALL.
BUT WE'RE NOT GIVING THEM
ARMED DRONES EVEN THOUGH THE
IRAQI FOREIGN MINISTER
FLOATED THE IDEA OF
REQUESTING THEM BECAUSE OF
FORMAL REQUEST FOR THE
DRONES HASN'T COME FROM
IRAQI PRIME MINISTER AND
ALSO I THINK THE WHITE HOUSE
IS RELUCTANT TO TAKE THAT
STEP SO WE'RE GIVING THEM
KIND EVER A WORK-AROUND
CAPABILITY.
>> SO THIS IS WHAT WER'S
WILLING TO GIVE AND IT SEEMS
THEY'RE ALSO BUYING FROM THE
RUSSIANS AND OTHERS.
>> IT'S WHAT WE'RE WILLING
TO GIVE AND WHAT THEY'RE
WILLING TO ASK FOR AT THIS
POINT IN TIME.
I MEAN ASKING FOR AN
AMERICAN AIR STRIKE IN
WESTERN IRAQ IS A BIG STEP
FOR THE IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER.
SO WHAT THEY'RE ASKING FOR,
THEY'RE ACTUALLY BUYING
THEM.
WE'RE NOT GIVING THEM.
THEY'RE BUYING 75 HELL FIRE
MISSILES AN THEY'RE ATTACHED
TO SORT OF A CESSNA PLANE,
IT'S ALMOST LIKE A GOLDBERG
CONTRAPTION WHICH FLIES IN
ON A TARGET WHICH BASICALLY
THEY'LL BE TOLD ABOUT MAINLY
THROUGH AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE AND THEN
THEY'LL HAVE SOME TACTICAL
DRONES TO REFINE THEIR
TARGETING.
AND THE INTENT IS TO GIVE
THEM THE CAPABILITY TO GO
AFTER A LOT OF THESE AL
QAEDA CAMPS IN WESTERN AND
NORTHERN IRAQ.
>> SO HOW MUCH OF THIS IS A
MILITARY-ONLY SOLUTION.
AND THE ANALYSTS AND THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT WHEN YOU ARE
SPEAKING TO THEM, HOW MUCH
IS A POLITICAL SOLUTION ON
THE PRIME MINISTER WORKING
OUT A SITUATION OR A
SOLUTION BETWEEN THE SUNNIES
AND SHI'AS IN IRAQ?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GOOD
QUESTION.
A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF
THIS PROBLEM IS MILITARY.
I MEAN WITH THE WITHDRAWAL
OF AMERICAN FORCES FROM IRAQ,
AL QAEDA OF IRAQ OR AS IT IS
KNOWN AS THE ISLAMIC STATE
OF IRAQ AN-- NOW ABLE TO
RECONSTITUTE ITSELF IT HAD
BEEN LARGELY DEFEATED
THROUGH THE SURGE.
THEY MOVED INTO SYRIA AND
ESTABLISHED A BASE IN SYRIA
AND IN IRAQ, AND FROM SYRIA
THEY'RE LAUNCHING
SUICIDE-- SENDING SUICIDE
BOMBERS INTO IRAQ, 30 TO 40
A MONTH WHICH ARE BEING
DIRECTED AT SHI'A AND SUNNI
TARGETS.
SO A SUBSTANTIAL PART OF
THIS PROBLEM IS MILITARY.
IF THEY HAD MORE MILITARY
CAPABILITY AND IF THE
AMERICANS WERE DIRECTLY
INVOLVED, THIS THREAT WOULD
BE MUCH REDUCED.
BUT THERE IS A POLITICAL
DIVISION-- DIMENSION TO IT
WHICH IS THAT AL QAEDA IS
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF
DETENTION-- THE TENSIONS
BETWEEN THE SUNNI POPULATION
AND SHI'A DOMINATED
GOVERNMENT AND THE
RELUCTANCE OF THE IRAQI
PRIME MINISTER TO SHARE
POWER WITH THE SUNNIS AND
THAT'S CREATED GRIEVANCES ON
THE PART OF THE SUNNIS WHICH
AL QAEDA HAS BEEN ABLE TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF A CERTAIN
EXTENT TO RECRUIT VOLUNTEERS.
>> SO THIS IS THE SAME
FACTION OF AL QAEDA THAT IS
OPERATE THAT BOTH ASSAD AND
THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY ARE
FIGHTING THERE AND ALSO
HAVING OPERATIONS AGAINST
THE U.S. IN IRAQ.
>> WHAT THEY SEEM TO HAVE
DONE IS THEY'VE CARVED OUT
AN AREA OF SYRIA AND IRAQ
WHICH IS THERE CALIFAT SO TO
SPEAK OR THEIR ZONE OF
CONTROL AND INFLUENCE.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY CONTROLLED
TERRITORY NOW.
IT'S BASICALLY, BASICALLY
THE SAME, THE SAME GROUP.
THEY DON'T RESPECT THE
BORDERSOR BOUNDARIES.
AND THEY GO, YOU KNOW, BACK
AND FORTH.
>> ALL RIGHT, MICHAEL GORDON
OF "THE NEW YORK TIMES",
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> NEXT TO I A VERY
DIFFERENT FIGHT BACK HERE IN
THE U.S..
THERE IS A CONTENTIOUS
BATTLE OVER HOW TO PROTECT
THE ICONIC BLUE WATERS OF
LAKE TAHOE WHICH SITS ON THE
CALIFORNIA NEVADA BORDER.
THE AGENCY THAT OVERSEAS
DEVELOPMENT IN THE AREA HAS
PROPOSED A NEW SET OF RULES
FOR CONSTRUCTION.
THE SIERRA CLUB AND OTHER
GROUPS HAVE CHALLENGED THE
PLAN IN COURT.
ARGUING IT FAVORS ECONOMIC
GROWTH OVER ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION.
GABRIELA KIRO/KQED SAN
FRANCISCO REPORTS.
> OK. WE'LL GO AROUND THE
ISLAND, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
WATERFALL, WE'LL LOOK AT SOME
OSPREY NESTS AND THEN WELL GO
FAST.
>> Reporter: LAKE TAHOE'S FAMOUS
WATERSRE T AHE CLEAREST OF ANY
LARGE LAKE IN THE UNITED STATES.
THEY ATTRACT 3,000,000 VISITORS
TO CALIFORNIA AND NEVADA EACH
YEAR.
>> THE BLUENESS COMES IN LARGE
PART FROM JUST THE INCREDIBLE
CLEANLINESS OF IT.
WHAT'S PRETTY WONDERFUL IS THAT
YOU'RE REALLY LIVING IN AN
ENVIRONMENT THAT DOES HAVE ALL
THE HALLMARKS OF A NATIONAL
PARK, BUT ANYBODY CAN COME HERE,
ANYBODY CAN LIVE HERE.
AND THE TRICK IS, HOW DO WE KEEP
THAT QUALITY AND KEEP USING IT?
>> Reporter: THAT QUESTION HAS
GUIDED SCIENTISTS LIKE GEOFF
SCHLADOW AND HOUNDED
POLICYMAKERS EVER SINCE THE
1960s, WHEN RESEARCHERS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT
DAVIS FIRST DOCUMENTED A DECLINE
IN THE LAKE'S CLARITY.
THE UNIVERSITY'S BRANT ALLEN
TAKES MEASUREMENTS EVERY TEN
DAYS.
>> WHEN WE TRY AND TRANSLATE
LAKE CLARITY TO THE PUBLIC, WHAT
THEY WANT TO KNOW IS HOW DEEP
INTO THE LAKE CAN THEY SEE.
AND SO I'LL BE LOWERING THE
SECCHI DISC DOWN INTO THE LAKE
UNTIL IT DISAPPEARS, GETTING OUR
CLARITY READING FOR THE DAY.
>> Reporter: ALLEN LETS A
FRISBEE-LOOKING DEVICE CALLED A
SECCHI DISC SINK UNTIL IT
DISAPPEARS.
>> EIGHTEEN METERS, OR RIGHT
AROUND 60 FEET.
AND THAT'S PRETTY TYPICAL FOR A
SUMMERTIME READING, SINCE THE
SECCHI DOES VARY SEASONALLY.
>> Reporter: SINCE 1968, THE
LAKE HAS LOST 20 FEET OF
CLARITY, MAINLY DUE TO
UNCONTROLLED URBANIZATION IN THE
1950S AND 1960S.
( Horn blown at Winter
Olympics. )
>> Reporter: THE 1960 WINTER
OLYMPICS RAISED THE LAKE'S
PROFILE AND ENCOURAGED
DEVELOPMENT, AS DID FRANK
SINATRA, WHO HOSTED CELEBRITIES
AT HIS CAL-NEVA CASINO.
SIERRA CLUB VOLUNTEER LAUREL
AMEWITNS ESSED THE DEVELOPMENT
BOOM FIRST HAND AS A YOUNG WOMAN
GROWING UP ON THE LAKE.
>> WHEN I WAS IN COLLEGE, I CAME
HOME ONE WEEKEND AND MY PARENTS
SAID "OH, YOU SHOULD GO DOWN AND
LOOK AT WHAT THEY'RE DOING TO
THE SWAMP."
>> Reporter: WHAT SOME RESIDENTS
CONSIDERED A SWAMP AT THE SOUTH
END OF THE LAKE WAS ACTUALLY A
LARGE WETLAND.
REPLACED IN THE 1960S BY A MAZE
OF HOUS TEDCACA THE
"TAHOE KEYS", THE WETLAND WAS NO
LONGER AVAILABLE TO FILTER DIRT
AND POLLUTANTS OUT BEFORE THEY
FLOWED INTO THE LAKE.
THE THREAT OF DEVELOPMENT IN A
PRISTINE CORNER OF THE LAKE LED
CITIZENS TO ORGANIZE.
THEY PRESSURED CALIFORNIA,
NEVADA AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO ENTER INTO AN
AGREEMENT, OR COMPACT, THAT
WOULD REGULATE DEVELOPMENT
AROUND THE LAKE.
>> THEY AGREED THAT TAHOE WAS
THREATENED, AND THAT TAHOE
NEEDED TO BE PROTECTED BY A
PLANNING AGENCY, A REGIONAL
PLANNING AGENCY.
STARTING IN THE 1980S, THE TAHOE
REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCY
RESTRICTED ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION.
SCIENTISTS HAD DISCOVERED THAT
DIRT ERODING AND WASHING IN FROM
URBAN AREAS CONTRIBUTED MORE
THAN ANY OTHER POLLUTANT TO
CLOUDING THE LAKE.
>> IT'S DUE IN LARGE PART TO
VERY FINE PARTICLES, THINGS LIKE
DUST THAT'S COMING FROM THE
ROADS.
AND ALSO STEEP DIRT SURFACES.
THEY'RE VERY PRONE TO EROSION.
>> Reporter: HARD SURFACES LIKE
ROADS AND PARKING LOTS CAN KEEP
TRANSPORTING DIRT YEARS AFTER
THEY'RE BUILT.
SO EVEN THOUGH DEVELOPMENT
SLOWED DOWN, THE LAKE CONTINUED
TO LOSE CLARITY.
>> THE ULTIMATE GOAL IS TO
RESTORE CLARITY TO WHAT IT WAS
BACK IN THE, IN THE 1960S.
THAT'S A SECCHI DEPTH READING OF
ABOUT 97 FEET.
RIGHT NOW, WE'RE AT ABOUT 70
FEET, SO THAT'S A, THAT'S A
LARGE CHANGE.
IF WE CAN CUT OFF THINGS LIKE
POLLUTANT FLOWS INTO THE
SURFACE, THEN WE WOULD ESTIMATE
THAT IN SOMETHING LIKE 20 TO 30
YEARS THE LAKE'S CLARITY COULD
BE RESTORED, IF ALL THE RIGHT
THINGS WERE DONE.
>> Reporter: BUT DOING THE RIGHT
THING COMES WITH A HEFTY
PRICETAG.
$1.6 BILLION IN FEDERAL, STATE
AND LOCAL FUNDS HAVE BEEN SPENT
OVER THE LAST 15 YEARS ON
WETLANDS RESTORATION AND OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS.
AND THE TAHOE PLANNING AGENCY
REQUIRES VISITORS AND LOCALS TO
FOLLOW STRICT, AND OFTEN
EXPENSIVE, RULES. PRIVATE
CONTRACTORS LIKE ROB BASILE MAKE
A LIVING HELPING HOMEOWNERS
COMPLY.
>> EVERYONE NEEDS TO PAVE THEIR
DRIVEWAY, FIRST OFF, SO WHEN IT
RAINS, IT DOESN'T WASH SEDIMENT
OFF YOUR COMPACTED DIRT DRIVEWAY
AND INTO THE CREEK.
AND THEN YOU NEED TO CAPTURE AND
TREAT THE STORM WATER RUNOFF
FROM YOUR ROOF AND FROM YOUR
DRIVEWAY SO THAT IT DOESN'T
LEAVE YOUR PROPERTY.
>> Reporter: THE NEW CHANNEL IN
HIS DRIVEWAY IS COSTING BRAD
KOHLER $2,000.
>> I PERSONALLY DON'T MIND AT
ALL DOING IT, AND NOT ONLY AM I
WILLING TO DO IT, I THINK SIT
REALLY IMPORTANT TO PUT IN THESE
FILTRATION SYSTEMS.
>> Reporter: BUT EVEN THOUGH
THIS RULE HAS BEEN ON THE BOOKS
FOR 20 YEARS, ONLY ONE THIRD OF
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY OWNERS HAVE COMPLIED.
THE TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING
AGENCY WANTS TO CHANGE THIS,
SAYS PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER
JEFF COWEN.
>> MEETING PROPERTY OWNERS AT
THE DOOR WITH A LIST OF "YOU'RE
GONNA HAVE TO DO THIS," AND
"YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO DO THIS,"
AND "YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO DO
THIS" HAS RESULTED IN VERY
LITTLE PROGRESS IN ENVIRONMENTAL
RESTORATION, ON THE PRIVATE
SECTOR.
SO WE ARE TRYING SOMETHING NEW.
>> Reporter: IN THE FIRST
COMPREHENSIVE OVERHAUL OF ITS
RULES IN THE LAST 25 YEARS, THE
AGENCY HAS LOOSENED SOME OF IT'S
BUILDING RESTRICTIONS HOPING TO
ENTICE PROPERTY OWNERS TO PUT IN
FILTRATION SYSTEMS.
THE PLANNING AGENCY HOLDS UP THE
EDGEWOOD TAHOE GOLF COURSE, IN
STATELINE, NEVADA, AS AN EXAMPLE
OF WHAT IT WOULD LIKE TO
ACHIEVE.
>> MOST OF THE NEW HOTEL PROJECT
WILL BE LOCATED ON THE NINTH
FAIRWAY.
>> Reporter: IN EXCHANGE FOR
PERMISSION TO BUILD A 200-ROOM
HOTEL ON ONE OF THEIR FAIRWAYS,
THE GOLF COURSE OWNERS AGREED TO
REMOVE A PARKING LOT AND TWO
BUILDINGS THAT HAD BEEN BUILT ON
WETLANDS.
EDGEWOOD EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT PATRICK RHAMEY
EXPLAINS.
>> SO THE INVESTMENT IN THE
HOTEL ALLOWS US TO INVEST BACK
INTO THE LAND, AND DO BETTER FOR
THE LAKE.
AND HAVE THE FINANCIAL
FLEXIBILITY TO ADD MORE WETLANDS
AND STORM WATER CONTROLS.
>> Reporter: BUT THE SIERRA CLUB
AND SEVERAL LAKE TAHOE
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS FILED A
LAWSUIT IN FEBRUARY TO STOP THE
NEW RULES, WHICH THEY ARGUE WILL
ADD MORE DIRT TO THE LAKE.
>> WHEN YOU INCREASE DENSITY YOU
INCREASE PEOPLE.
WHEN YOU INCREASE PEOPLE, YOU
INCREASE CARS.
AND WHEN YOU INCREASE CARS, YOU
HAVE TO ADD PARKING. SO YOU ADD
ASPHALT.
>> THERE ISN'T GOING TO BE AN
EXPLOSION OF GROWTH IN LAKE
TAHOE FROM THIS PLAN.
THERE ISN'T GOING TO BE A SUDDEN
EXPLOSION IN LAND COVERAGE, AND
CERTAINLY NOWHERE NEAR THE LAKE.
>> Reporter: THE LAKE CLARITY IS
REALLY THE LIFE BLOOD OF ANY
BUSINESS THAT'S HERE AT LAKE
TAHOE.
ITS ABOUT THE LAKE.
THAT'S THE REASON WHY PEOPLE
COME HERE.
THE BATTLE WILL PLAY OUT IN
COURT OVER THE NEXT YEAR.
SO FAR, SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THAT
EFFORTS TO KEEP DIRT OUT OF THE
LAKE ARE PAYING OFF, AT LEAST
DURING THE WET WINTER MONTHS.
>> IN WINTER, THERE ACTUALLY HAS
BEEN AN IMPROVEMENT BECAUSE OF
MANY OF THESE STORM WATER
PROJECTS THAT HAVE GONE IN.
>> Reporter: STILL, NEARLY EVERY
SUMMER, THE LAKE CONTINUES TO
GET CLOUDIER.
SCIENTISTS NOW SUSPECT THAT
WARMER SUMMER WATERS, BROUGHT ON
BY CLIMATE CHANGE, ARE MAKING
THE LAKE MORE PRONE TO ALGAE, A
PROBLEM THAT COULD PROVE EVEN
MORE INTRACTABLE THAN DIRT.
TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT DLIM
AT CHANGE AND OTHER THREATS
LIKE INVASIVE SPECIES COULD
AFFECT LAKE TAHOE YOU CAN
WATCH KQED DOCUMENTARY LAKE
TAHOE, CAN WE SAVE IT, FIND
IT ON OUR HOME PAGE.
GIVEN THE DIZZYING AMOUNT OF
COVERAGE IT'S HARD FOR MANY
OF US TO KEEP TRACK OF WHAT
WE LEARNED ABOUT THE
SECRETIVE AGENCY AND ITS
ACTIVITY.
TONIGHT WE TAKE A LOOK BACK
AT THE MAJOR DISCLOSURES OF
THE SPYING PROGRAMS, THE
FALLOUT AND WHAT MIGHT BE
CHANGING AS A RESULT.
>> THE NSA WAS ONCE
>> WoNC
SO SECRET, EVEN ITS EXISTENCE
WAS NOT OFFICIALLY ACKNOWLEDGED.
NO MORE.
IN JUNE, THE U.S. AGENCY WAS
THRUST INTO THE INTERNATIONAL
SPOTLIGHT BY EDWARD SNOWDEN.
>> BECAUSE EVEN IF YOU'RE NOT
DOING ANYTHING WRONG, YOU'RE
BEING WATCHED AND RECORDED.
Woo>>druff: THE FORMER N.S.A.
CONTRACT EMPLOYEE TURNED
FUGITIVE UNLEASHED A FLOOD OF
LEAKED MATERIAL DOCUMENTING
SURVEILLANCE OF EVERYTHING FROM
PHONE CALLS, TO WEB SEARCHES TO
E-MAIL.
>> TO WHERE IT'S GETTING TO THE
POINT YOU DON'T HAVE TO HAVE
DONE ANYTHING WRONG, YOU SIMPLY
HAVE TO EVENTUALLY FALL UNDER
SUSPICION FROM SOMEBODY, EVEN BY
A WRONG CALL, AND THEN THEY CAN
USE THIS SYSTEM TO GO BACK IN
TIME AND SCRUTINIZE EVERY
DECISION YOU'VE EVER MADE, EVERY
FRIEND YOU'VE EVER DISCUSSED
>> Woodruff: THE FIRST OF MANY
REPORTS BASED ON SNOWDEN'S
INFORMATION CAME IN THE BRITISH
NEWSPAPER "THE GUARDIAN".
ON JUNE 5TH THIS YEAR IT
REPORTED ON A PROGRAM KNOWN AS
"PRISM".
IT COLLECTS SO-CALLED
"METADATA", OR DATA ABOUT DATA,
FROM
U.S. PHONE COMPANIES, ON
MILLIONS OF CALLS BY FOREIGNERS
AND AMERICAN CITIZENS.
EARLY ON, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
THE EFFORT DID NOT TARGET U.S.
CITIZENS, AND INITIALLY DEFENDED
THE N.S.A.'S ACTIONS.
>> BY SIFTING THROUGH THIS SO-
CALLED METADATA, THEY MAY
IDENTIFY POTENTIAL LEADS WITH
RESPECT TO FOLKS WHO MIGHT
ENGAGE IN TERRORISM.
>> Woodruff: PUBLIC AND
CONGRESSIONAL SENTIMENT
SUPPORTED THAT STANCE AT FIRST,
BUT THE LEAKS KEPT COMING.
ON OCTOBER 14, THE PUBLIC
LEARNED THE N.S.A. COLLECTS
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF CONTACT
LISTS FROM PERSONAL EMAILS.
AND TEN DAYS LATER, THAT THE
U.S. HAS MONITORED PHONE CALLS
OF ALLIED LEADERS, INCLUDING
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL.
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE, JAMES CLAPPER,
DEFENDED THE NEED TO LEARN
FOREIGN INTENTIONS-- EVEN IF IT
MEANS SPYING ON ALLIES.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS
WE LEARNED IN INTEL SCHOOL IN
1963, THAT THIS IS A FUNDAMENTAL
GIVEN IN THE INTELLIGENCE
BUSINESS.
>> Woodruff: THE VERY NEXT DAY,
IT CAME OUT THE N.S.A. HAS
COLLECTED INFORMATION FROM
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF USER
ACCOUNTS B
YAHOO DATA CENTERS.
THAT WAS FOLLOWED THIS MONTH BY
DISCLOSURES THAT THE AGENCY ALSO
GATHERS NEARLY 5 BILLION RECORDS
A DAY, TRACKING THE WHEREABOUTS
OF CELLPHONES AROUND THE WORLD.
IN RESPONSE, EIGHT MAJOR U.S.
TECH COMPANIES DEMANDED TIGHTER
CONTROLS ON SURVEILLANCE.
AND ONE WEEK LATER, A U.S.
FEDERAL JUDGE RULED THE
COLLECTION OF DOMESTIC TELEPHONE
RECORDS WAS PROBABLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
TWO DAYS AFTER THAT, A
PRESIDENTIAL REVIEW PANEL
RECOMMENDED A LIST OF CURBS ON
SURVEILLANCE.
LAST FRIDAY, THE PRESIDENT
ADDRESSED THE ISSUE AGAIN.
BUT THIS TIME, HE SUGGESTED
CHANGES MAY BE COMING.
>> WE NEED THIS INTELLIGENCE, WE
CAN'T UNILATERALLY DISARM, THERE
ARE WAYS WE CAN DO IT
POTENTIALLY THAT GIVES PEOPLE
GREATER ASSURANCE THAT THERE ARE
CHECKS AND BALANCES, THAT THERE
IS SUFFICIENT OVERSIGHT,
SUFFICIENT TRANSPARENCY
THE ENVIRONMENT HAS CHANGED IN
WAYS THAT I THINK REQUIRE US TO
TAKE THAT INTO ACCOUNT
THE MAN WHO STARTED IT ALL,
EDWARD SNOWDEN, RESURFACED THIS
WEEK FROM HIS ASYLUM IN RUSSIA,
TELLING "THE WASHINGTON POST",
"I ALREADY WON."
>> HI AND MERRY CHRISTMAS.
>> Woodruff: AND YESTERDAY, HE
ISSUED A TWO MINUTE VIDEO
MESSAGE, WARNING THAT TODAY'S
CHILDREN WILL NEVER KNOW WHAT
PRIVACY IS.
>> WE HAVE SENSORS IN OUR
POCKETS THAT TRACK US EVERYWHERE
WE GO.
THINK ABOUT WHAT THIS MEANS FOR
THE PRIVACY OF THE AVERAGE
PERSON.
DIRECTOR CLAPPER AND OTHER
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS ARGUE THE
DISCLOSURES LET LOOSE BY SNOWDEN
HAVE DONE GREAT DAMAGE TO
NATIONAL SECURITY.
BUT AT YEAR'S END, PUBLIC
PRESSURE IS GROWING ON CONGRESS
TO INVESTIGATE THE SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS AND POSSIBLY REIN THEM
IN.
FOR HIS PART, THE PRESIDENT SAYS
HE'LL MAKE WHAT HE CALLS "A
PRETTY DEFINITIVE STATEMENT
ABOUT ALL OF THIS", IN JANUARY.
>> Woodruff: THE FORMER NSA
CONTRACT EMPLOYEE MICHAEL
HAYDEN WAS DIRECTOR OF THE
NAS-- NSA WHEN MANY OF THE
PROGRAMS REVEALED BY SNOWDEN
WAS ARE FIRST LAUNCHED.
JAMES BAMFORD IS AN AWE
THOFL-- AUTHOR AND
JOURNALIST HE HAS WRITTEN
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT THE NSA
AND DMITRI ALPEROVITCH IS
FROM CROWD STRIKE, A
CYBERSECURITY COMPANY.
AND WELCOME ALL THREE OF YOU
TO THE NEWSHOUR, AGAIN,
THANK YOU.
LET ME START WITH YOU JAMES
BAMFORD WHAT IS THE MAIN
CONCERN YOU HAVE ABOUT WHAT
WE HAVE LEARNED THAT THE NSA
IS DOING?
>> ONE OF THE MAIN CONCERNTHIS N
ABSOLUTE SECRECY AND ONCE
YOU START SHOWING, PUTTING A
LITTLE LIGHT ON IT LIKE FROM
THIS JUDGE LEON WHO TOOK A
LOOK AT IT, THE WHITE HOUSE
PANEL WHO TOOK A LOOK AT IF,
WE STARTED SEEING THAT ALL
THIS BECOMES WHAT THEY'RE
CALLING UNCONSTITUTIONAL OR
ILLEGAL.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE BIG
PROBLEM.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
DISCOVERED IN LOOKING AT
SOME OF THE DOCUMENTS WAS
THE FACT THAT THE NSA WAS
BEGINNING TO LOOK AT THE
QUESTION OF VISITING PORN
SITES, WHO WAS VISITING
WHICH PORN SITES AND USING
THAT AGAINST THE PEOPLE TO
DESTROY THEIR REPUTATION.
>> Woodruff: AGAINST WHICH
PEOPLE.
>> AGAINSOY
CONSIDERED RADICAL.
THEY WEREN'T EVEN PEOPLE WHO
WERE CONSIDERED TERRORISTS.
AND THAT WAS DONE IN THE
1960s BY J. EDGAR HOOVER
AGAINST A RADICAL AT THE
TIME WHO WAS MARTIN LUTHER
KING, SO I THINK WITHOUT ANY
KIND OF PROPER OVERSIGHT,
YOU START MOVING ALONG THOSE
LINES, AND GOING BACK TO
WHERE WE WERE BACK IN THE
'60s AND '70s.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU ARE
SAYING IT IS MUCH MORE
TARGETED AT WHAT INDIVIDUALS
ARE DOING THAN WHAT THE
NSA-- WITHIN THAT IS WHAT
THEY WERE PROPOSING.
AND THAT'S AGAIN GOING SORT
OF BACK TO WHAT WE WERE
DOING IN THE 60s WHICH AGAIN
WERE TEBL THINGS THAT WE DID
BACK THEN.
AND WITHOUT PROPER OVERSIGHT
WE START MOVING AGAIN BACK
INTO THOSE BAD HABITS.
>> ARE YOU SAYING THAT IS
HAPPENING NOW.
>> THAT WAS ONE OF THE
DOCUMENTS.
THAT WAS IN BRAZIL, I WAS
WITH GLENN GREENWALD AND I
SAW ONE OF THE DOCUMENTS
THAT INDICATED THAT THEY
WERE STARTING TO FOLLOW
WHO'S GOING TO WHAT PORN
SITES AND THEN TALKING ABOUT
USING THAT TO DISCREDIT
RADICALS IN FUTURE, NOT
CURRENTLY BUT IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL HAYDEN
WHAT ABOUT THE OVERALL
COMPLAINT ABOUT WHAT IS
GOING ON INCLUDING A
SPECIFIC POINT THAT HE JUST
MADE.
>> WELL, JIM SAID THIS IS
BEING DONE IN ABSOLUTE
SECRETARY RESEE.
I THINK ABSOLUTE IS TOO BIG
A WORD.
I WILL ACCEPT SECRECY
BECAUSE ESPIONAGE IS USUALLY
DONE IN SECRET.
BUT ABSOLUTE, NOT SO I MEAN
THIS PROGRAM, THE THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN REVEALED WERE
FULLY KNOWN BY BOTH
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES IN THE
HOUSE AND IN THE SENATE.
THEY WERE AUTHORIZED BY TWO
PRESIDENTS, TWO ACTUALLY
INCREDIBLY DIFFERENT
PRESIDENTS.
AND.
>> Woodruff: BUSH AND OBAMA.
>> RIGHT.
AND FOR A BIG CHUNK OF THE
ACTIVITY THAT HAS BEEN
REVEALED, WE'VE ALSO HAD
OVERSIGHT BY THE VICE ACCORD,
THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ACT
ACCORD.
I WOULD SUGGEST TO YOU THAT
THAT IS KIND OF THE
MADISONIAN TRIFECTA WHEN IT
COMES TO NOT BEING OVERLY
SECRET.
LOOK, THE GREAT COMPROMISE
IN THE 1970s AFTER SOME OF
THE ABUSES AT THAT TIME WAS
THAT INTELLIGENCE COULDN'T
BE DONE PUBLICLY BUT IT
NEEDED OVERSIGHT.
AND WHAT WE CREATED AT THAT
TIME WERE THESE TWO
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES IN THE
CONGRESS, AND THE VICE
ACCORD.
THEY KNEW ALL ABOUT THIS.
>> Woodruff: SO JAMES
BAMFORD, YOU HEAR WHAT THE
GENERAL IS SAYING, THAT
SPYING IS WHAT SURVEILLANCE
AGENCIES DO, BUT IT'S BEING
DONE WITH OVERSIGHT.
>> IT'S FUNNY, GENERAL
HAYDEN BROUGHT UP JAMES
MADISON BECAUSE JUDGE LEON
MENTIONED JAMES MADISON IN
HISPINION.
AND HE SAID-- .
>> Woodruff: THIS IS THE
FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE WHO
SUS RULED.
>> EXACTLY.
HE SAID JAMES MADISON WOULD
BE AGHAST AT GOVERNMENT
ENKOCHLTS ON PRIVACY LIKE HE
WAS DISCOVERING.
SO YOU I DON'T THINK THAT
THIS WOULD BE APPROVED BY
THE FOUNDING FATHERS, AND I
DON'T THINK IT'S APPROVED BY
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC NOW THAT
THEY ARE FINDING ABOUT IT.
>> EVEN WITH THE OVERSIGHT.
>> THE PROBLEM WITH THE
OVERSIGHT IS THE ACCORD HAS
COME OUT NUMEROUS TIMES
SAYING IN SECRET THAT THE
NSA WASN'T OBEYING WHAT IT
WAS DIRECTED TO DO AND IT
WAS COLLECTING MORE
INFORMATION THAN IT WAS
ALLOWED TO COLLECT.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL, HOW DO
YOU RESPOND?
>> YEAH, I MEAN THESE ARE
COMPLEX TASKS.
AND THE COMMISSION REPORT
THAT I'M SURE WE'LL TALK
ABOUT BEFORE WE'RE DONE HERE
POINTED OUT THERE WERE NO
ABUSES IN ANY OF THESE
PROGRAMS.
NOW IT IS DIFFICULT TO DO
WHAT NSA IS DOING.
AND WHEN NSA DISCOVERED,
SELF-DISCOVERED, I MIGHT ADD,
WHAT IT WAS THEY WERE DOING
MIGHT BE BEYOND WHAT HAD
BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE COURT,
THEY SELF-REPORTED TO THE
COURT AND CORRECTED WHATEVER
WAS WRONG.
>> Woodruff: AN WHEN DID
THAT HAPPEN.
>> IT HAPPENEDS ROUTINELY.
THERE WERE SEVERAL INSTANCES
WHEN BECAUSE OF THE
COMPLEXITY OF THE TASK,
WHETHER IT HAD-TO-DO WITH
METADAT, THE PRISON PROGRAM
OR CONTENT, WHEN DIFFERENT
SELECTERS ARE PUT IN,
PERHAPS THEY HADN'T NARROWED
THE SEARCH APPROPRIATELY.
IN ONE CASE, I WILL GIVE AN
EXAMPLE.
IN ONE CASE, AND THIS IS
REPORTED PUBLICLY IN THE
PRESS WITH MUCH FANFARE I
MIGHT ADD, THE NSA VIOLATED
PRIVACY 3,000 TIMES IN THE
COURSE OF THE YEAR.
AND YOU GO OVER THE DETAILS
OF THAT REPORT, LET ME GIVE
YOU ONE EXAMPLE.
THEY SAID THERE WERE OVERLY
BROAD SEARCH TERMS USED BY
NSA GOING AFTER THE DATA IT
HAD ALREADY LAWFULLY
COLLECTED.
AND THAT DURING A QUARTER
THAT HAD HAPPENED 160 TIMES,
THAT IS 160 OVER 63 MILLION
INQUIRIES THAT HAD TAKEN
PLACE DURING THAT QUARTER.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO BRING
MR. ALPEROVITCH IN IN A
MOMENT.
BUT QUICKLY JAMES BAMFORD
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE TO
THAT?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IN TERMS OF
OVERSIGHT, WE WERE JUST
TALKING ABOUT THE FISA COURT,
LET'S LOOK AT CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: THAT WILL WERE
SO FEW INSTANCES OUT OF ALL
THE DATA COLLECTED.
>> THE POINT IS THEY'VE GOT
ENORMOUS AMOUNTS OF DATA.
THERE WAS ONE REPORT HERE
THEY HAD 35,000 INSTANCES O
OF-- OF ABUSE THAT CAME OUT.
>> NO, I'M SORRY, I DON'T
MEAN TO INTERRUPT.
ABUSE IS ONE THING, MAKING
AN ERROR IN A COMPLEX TASK
IS QUITE ANOTHER.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO BRING
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH IN,
BECAUSE YOU'VE LOOKED VERY
CLOSELY.
HE YOU TALK TO THESE TECH
COMPANIES WHETHER GOOGLE OR
THE OTHERS.
WHAT IS IT THAT YOU HAVE
FOUND HAS TAKEN PLACE IN THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THESE
COMPANIES THAT ARE IN THE
MIDDLE OF ALL THIS, AND THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT, THE NSA?
>> I THINK JUDY ONE OF THE
MOST TRAGIC THINGS OUT OF
THIS ENTIRE SITUATION IS THE
IMPACT THAT IT HAS ON
CYBERSECURITY WHICH HAS BEEN
REALLY DAMAGING.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAST 12
MONTHS WE STARTED THE YEAR
WITH SO MUCH HOPE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MENTIONED
CYBERSECURITY FOR THE FIRST
TIME NEVER THE STATE OF THE
UNION.
WE STARTED TO REA LINE OUR
ENTIRE POLICY.
WHICH IS HAS DAMAGED
SIGNIFICANTLY ECONOMICALLY
AND IF YOU WILL RECALL FROM
A TINY PERSPECTIVE PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF CHINA THAT
WEEKEND IN JUNE AND
CYBERSECURITY WAS AT THE TOP
OF THE AGENDA.
THE LEAKS COME OUT AND THE
ENTIRE AGENDA IS NOW IN
SHAMBLES AND WE CAN NO
LONGER HAVE MORAL HIGH
GROUND TO CONFRONT THE
CHINESE ON THESE TOPICS.
>> Woodruff: GO AHEAD AND
FINISH YOUR POINT.
>> YEAH, FROM THE IMPACT ON
A PRIVATE SECTOR THERE IS
GREAT CONCERN AMONGST THE
PRIVATE SECTORS OF COMPANIES
LIKE GOOGLE, APPLE AND
OTHERS FROM COMPANIES SAYING
WE CAN NO LONGER TRUST THE
GOVERNMENT AND WORK CLOSELY
WITH THE GOVERNMENT AS WE
HAVE IN THEAST. P
>> Woodruff: GENERAL.
>> YEAH THERE ARE THREE BODE
AS OF FOLKS OUT THERE
WORRIED ABOUT THIS PROGRAM.
ONE IS FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.
I REALLY DON'T HAVE A GREAT
DEAL OF CONCERN ABOUT THAT.
THE OTHER ARE PRIVACY
ADVOCATES.
ALTHOUGH THEY'RE VERY
SERIOUS, I ACTUALLY THINK
THE COMMISSION REPORT POINTS
OUT THERE HAVE BEEN NO
ABUSES AN THEREFORE I'M
QUITE WILLING TO HAVE THAT
DISCUSSION.
>> Woodruff: NO ABUSES.
>> NO, NO.
>> Woodruff: YOU MEAN IN
TERMS OF THE DEALINGS WITH
THE TECH COMPANIES.
>> NO, NO, JUST IN GENERAL
WITH REGARD TO PRIVACY.
BUT DMITRI POINTS OUT A VERY
IMPORTANT AND VERY SAD FACT.
AND I DO AGREE WITH DMITRI.
THE ONES WHO HAVE SUFFERED
THE MOST BECAUSE OF THESE
REVELATIONS, THE ONES WHO
HAVE THE GREATEST AMOUNT OF
GRIEVANCE WITH REGARD TO
THAT IS AMERICAN INDUSTRY.
BECAUSE THESE REVELATIONS
ARE BEING USED TO, I THINK
VERY UNFAIRLY, EXPOSE
AMERICAN INDUSTRY TO
CRITICISM ABROAD AND HURT
THEIR COMPETITIVENESS.
WHEN AMERICAN INDUSTRY DOES
FOR THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
THE VERY SAME THINGS THAT
OTHER NATIONAL INDUSTRIES DO
FOR THEIR GOVERNMENTS, BUT
THE FACT THAT THE AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE ENTERPRISE HAS
BEEN MADE PUBLIC PUNISHES
AMERICAN INDUSTRY.
>> Woodruff: SO GIVEN THAT,
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH WHAT
NEEDS TO CHANGE.
WE KNOW THE PRESIDENT IS
GOING TO COME BACK
SUPPOSEDLY WITH SOME
RECOMMENDATIONS IN JANUARY.
WHAT NEEDS TO CHANGE IN
TERMS OF THE NSA'S
RELATIONSHIP WITH THESE TECH
COMPANIES?
>> WELL, I THINK A LOT HAS
ALREADY CHANGED FOR A LOT OF
THESE COMPANIES THAT WANT TO
HAVE A RELATIONSHIP WITH NS,
A.
AND THAT'S CERTAINLY CAN BE
IMPACTFUL TO OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY.
IF THE NEXT TIME IF YOU
RECALL GOOGLE APPROACHED THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT WHEN THEY
GOT HACKED BY THE CHINESE IN
2010 FOR HELP, I'M NOT SURE
THEY WOULD DO THAT AGAIN AND
THAT WOULD HURT BOTH THE
PRIVATE SECTOR AND THE
GOVERNMENT BECAUSE YOU WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO COLLABORATE
AND SHARE INFORMATION AS IN
THE PAST.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THAT
AFFECT NATIONAL SECURITY IF
THE COMPANIES DON'T WORK
WITH THE GOVERNMENT.
>> OH, LOOK, I'M AN AIR
FORCE OFFICER, ALMOST 40
YEARS IN THE AIR FORCE.
THE AMERICAN AIRS TO IS THE
MILITARY EXPRESSION OF THE
AMERICAN AVIATION INDUSTRY,
RIGHT.
THE AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE
ENTERPRISE, AMERICAN
CYBERSECURITY ARE THE
ESPIONAGE AND MILITARY
EXPRESSIONS OF THE AMERICAN
TELECOMMUNICATION AND
COMPUTER INDUSTRY.
I MEAN THESE TWO THINGS ARE
WEDDED.
AND IF FOR ONE REASON OR
ANOTHER THESE ARE SEPARATED,
AMERICAN SECURITY IS HARMED
AND AMERICAN COMMERCE IS
EQUALLY HARMED.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT COULD
HAPPEN.
>> YES.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> IT'S GREAT.
>> JAMES BAMFORD TO YOU.
WHAT NEEDS TO CHANGE?
I MEAN YOU CAME WITH A LONG
LIST ABUSES THAT YOU
BELIEVE NEED TO BE FIXED.
WHAT ARE THE MAIN WAYS IT
NEEDS TO CHANGE?
>> WELL, WHAT I THINK HAS TO
HAPPEN IS WE DID THIS IN
1975, WE HAD THE CHURCH
COMMITTEE.
IT TOOK A VERY COMPREHENSIVE
LOOK AT THE ENTIRE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND
LOOKING AT THE ABUSES THAT
TOOK PLACE BACK THEN.
WE HAVEN'T HAD SUCH A
COMPREHENSIVE LOOK AT THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY SINCE
THEN.
AND IN THAT TIME WE'VE HAD
ALLEGATIONS-OF-TORTURE,
ALLEGATIONS-OF-EAVESDROPPING
ON SO MANY COMMUNICATION AND
SO FORTH, PICKING UP ALL THE
TELEPHONE DATA.
I JUST THINK THERE NEEDS TO
BE ONE MAYBE YEAR-LONG
COMPREHENSIVE LOOK THAT IS
EQUIVALENT TO THE 9/11
COMMISSION REPORT.
THAT'S REALLY THE ONLY WAY
WE CAN GET TO THE BOTTOM.
>> WHAT IS-- WHAT'S ONE OF
THE MAIN CHANGES THAT YOU
THINK THOUGH SHOULD BE MADE.
>> WELL, THE PANEL THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE FOUND CAME OUT
WITH I THINK 45 OF THEM, I
THINK THAT WERE VERY USEFUL.
THE MAIN CHANGES, I THINK,
YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE FAR MORE
TRANSPARENCY.
I MEAN THE INFORMATION IS
OUT NOW THAT THE NSA DOES
THIS KIND OF ACTIVITY.
AND I THINK YOU HAVE TO HAVE
MORE TRANSPARENCY.
FAR BETTER OVERSIGHT THAN
AND I THINK YOU HAVE TO HAVE
WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST IN
FAR BETTER OVERSIGHT THAN
RMSTE OF THE FISA COURT AND
WE'VE HAD IN THE PAST IN
CONGRESS.
RMSTE OF THE FISA COURT AND
>> Woodruff: WHAT IF THAT
CONGRESS.
HAPPENS, WHAT IF THERE IS A
>> Woodruff: WHAT IF THAT
LOT MORE TRANSPARENCY.
HAPPENS, WHAT IF THERE IS A
>> FIRST OF ALL THERE NEED
LOT MORE TRANSPARENCY.
BE MORE TRANSPARENCY TO GIVE
>> FIRST OF ALL THERE NEED
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
BE MORE TRANSPARENCY TO GIVE
CONFIDENCE IN THEIR
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ESPIONAGE SERVICES, THAT
CONFIDENCE IN THEIR
THEY ARE ACTING CONSISTENT
ESPIONAGE SERVICES, THAT
WITH THE VALUES OF THE
THEY ARE ACTING CONSISTENT
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
WITH THE VALUES OF THE
NOW LOOK LET'S NOT KID
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
ANYONE THAT WILL SHAVE
NOW LOOK LET'S NOT KID
POINTS OFF OF OPERATIONAL
ANYONE THAT WILL SHAVE
EFFECTIVENESS.
POINTS OFF OF OPERATIONAL
THERE IS NO WAY TO GIVE THE
EFFECTIVENESS.
AMERICAN PEOPLE DEEPER
THERE IS NO WAY TO GIVE THE
KNOWLEDGE WITHOUT GIVING OUR
AMERICAN PEOPLE DEEPER
ADVERSARIES DEEPER KNOWLEDGE
KNOWLEDGE WITHOUT GIVING OUR
TOO.
ADVERSARIES DEEPER KNOWLEDGE
BUT I ANY THAT LINE HAS
TOO.
MOVED AND WE WILL HAVE TO
BUT I ANY THAT LINE HAS
BECOME MORE TRANSPARENT.
MOVED AND WE WILL HAVE TO
NOW I SHOULD ADD THOUGH, ALL
BECOME MORE TRANSPARENT.
RIGHT, THAT HE JUST
NOW I SHOULD ADD THOUGH, ALL
MENTIONED THE CHURCH
RIGHT, THAT HE JUST
COMMISSION AND WHAT IT
MENTIONED THE CHURCH
SUGGESTED.
COMMISSION AND WHAT IT
AND IT PUT IN PLACE
SUGGESTED.
OVERSIGHT.
AND IT PUT IN PLACE
THE OVERSIGHT THE CHURCH
OVERSIGHT.
COMMISSION PUT IN PLACE IS
THE OVERSIGHT THE CHURCH
THE OVERSIGHT THAT HAS BEEN
COMMISSION PUT IN PLACE IS
WATCHING THE NSA THESE PAST
THE OVERSIGHT THAT HAS BEEN
SEVERAL YEARS.
WATCHING THE NSA THESE PAST
THE FISA COURT, AND THE TWO
SEVERAL YEARS.
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES,
THE FISA COURT, AND THE TWO
THAT'S CORRECT.
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES,
>> BUT THE PROBLEM WAS THE
THAT'S CORRECT.
FISA COURT WAS WEAKENED A
>> BUT THE PROBLEM WAS THE
FEW YEARS AGO IN THE FISA
FISA COURT WAS WEAKENED A
AMENDMENT ACT, THEY TOOK A
FEW YEARS AGO IN THE FISA
LOT OF THE POWERS AWAY FROM
AMENDMENT ACT, THEY TOOK A
THE FISA COURT AND WE SEE
LOT OF THE POWERS AWAY FROM
FROM THE COURT'S REPORTS
THE FISA COURT AND WE SEE
THAT THEY WERE CHASTISING
FROM THE COURT'S REPORTS
THE NSA CONSTANTLY ABOUT
THAT THEY WERE CHASTISING
ABUSING THEIR AUTHORITIES.
THE NSA CONSTANTLY ABOUT
>> Woodruff: JUST VERY
ABUSING THEIR AUTHORITIES.
QUICKLY DMITRI ALPEROVITCH,
>> Woodruff: JUST VERY
GENERAL HAYDEN WE HEARD HIM
QUICKLY DMITRI ALPEROVITCH,
SAY THAT IF THESE CHANGES
GENERAL HAYDEN WE HEARD HIM
TAKE PLACE, IF THE
SAY THAT IF THESE CHANGES
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
TAKE PLACE, IF THE
TECH COMPANIES AND THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
GOVERNMENT IS PRAYED-- AFRAID,
TECH COMPANIES AND THE
U.S. SECURITY IS HURT.
GOVERNMENT IS PRAYED-- AFRAID,
WHAT DOT COMPANIES FEEL,
U.S. SECURITY IS HURT.
WHAT DO THEY THINK ABOUT
WHAT DOT COMPANIES FEEL,
THAT?
WHAT DO THEY THINK ABOUT
>> WELL, IT VER'SY
THAT?
PROBLEMATIC BECAUSE FOR A
>> WELL, IT VER'SY
LONG TIME WE'VE BEEN SORT OF
PROBLEMATIC BECAUSE FOR A
WAITING FOR THE GOVERNMENT
LONG TIME WE'VE BEEN SORT OF
TO STEP IN IN THIS FIELD OF
WAITING FOR THE GOVERNMENT
CYBERSECURITY AN PROTECT US
TO STEP IN IN THIS FIELD OF
FROM THREATS, WOULD YOU
CYBERSECURITY AN PROTECT US
NEVER EXPECT IN THE PHYSICAL
FROM THREATS, WOULD YOU
WORLD FOR COMPANIES TO
NEVER EXPECT IN THE PHYSICAL
DEFUND THEMSELVES FROM
WORLD FOR COMPANIES TO
THREATS FROM PLA, FROM-- IN
DEFUND THEMSELVES FROM
RUSSIA OR WHATEVER YOU BUT
THREATS FROM PLA, FROM-- IN
IN CYBERSPACE THAT'S THE
RUSSIA OR WHATEVER YOU BUT
SITUATION.
IN CYBERSPACE THAT'S THE
AND TODAY I THINK THE
SITUATION.
REALITY IS THE LEGISLATION
AND TODAY I THINK THE
ON THE HILL THAT HAS BEEN
REALITY IS THE LEGISLATION
CONSIDERED FOR THE LAST
ON THE HILL THAT HAS BEEN
NUMBER OF YEARS IS THE IDEA
CONSIDERED FOR THE LAST
OF INFORMATION SHARING
NUMBER OF YEARS IS THE IDEA
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND
OF INFORMATION SHARING
PRIVATE SECTOR IS NO LONGER
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND
ACCEPTABLE TO THE AMERICAN
PRIVATE SECTOR IS NO LONGER
PEOPLE SO AS A RESULT I
ACCEPTABLE TO THE AMERICAN
THINK WE'LL ALL BE LESS SAFE
PEOPLE SO AS A RESULT I
AND THE PRIVATE SECTOR IS
THINK WE'LL ALL BE LESS SAFE
REALIZING THEY'RE ON THEIR
AND THE PRIVATE SECTOR IS
OWN.
REALIZING THEY'RE ON THEIR
>> WE'RE IN A NEW WORLD,
OWN.
WHEN ALL THIS IS TAKEN
>> WE'RE IN A NEW WORLD,
TOGETHER.
WHEN ALL THIS IS TAKEN
WE THANK YOU ALL FOR PULLING
TOGETHER.
IT TOGETHER.
WE THANK YOU ALL FOR PULLING
GENERAL MICHAEL HAYDEN,
IT TOGETHER.
JAMES BAMFORD, DMITRI ALL
GENERAL MICHAEL HAYDEN,
PERREAULT VERY MUCH, THANK
JAMES BAMFORD, DMITRI ALL
YOU.
PERREAULT VERY MUCH, THANK
>> THANK YOU.
YOU.
>> Wooduff: EVEN AS THE U.S.
>> THANK YOU.
ECONOMY CONTINUED ITS RECOVERY,
>> Wooduff: EVEN AS THE U.S.
2013 WAS YET ANOTHER YEAR THAT
ECONOMY CONTINUED ITS RECOVERY,
RAISED SOBERING QUESTIONS ABOUT
2013 WAS YET ANOTHER YEAR THAT
INEQUALITY AND THE NATION'S
RAISED SOBERING QUESTIONS ABOUT
ABILITY TO TACKLE SOME OF ITS
INEQUALITY AND THE NATION'S
BIGGEST PROBLEMS.
ABILITY TO TACKLE SOME OF ITS
SOME OF THOSE ISSUES, AND AN
BIGGEST PROBLEMS.
UNUSUAL PERSPECTIVE ON FOUR
SOME OF THOSE ISSUES, AND AN
DECADES OF HISTORY, ARE AT THE
UNUSUAL PERSPECTIVE ON FOUR
CENTER OF ONE OF THE YEAR'S MOST
DECADES OF HISTORY, ARE AT THE
NOTABLE BOOKS.
CENTER OF ONE OF THE YEAR'S MOST
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
NOTABLE BOOKS.
CONVERSATION
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
A A DISENCHANTED WASHINGTON
CONVERSATION
LOBBYIST, JUST SOME OF THE
A A DISENCHANTED WASHINGTON
AMERICAN PROS FILE ADD LONG
LOBBYIST, JUST SOME OF THE
WITH WELL-KNOWN FIGURES LIKE
AMERICAN PROS FILE ADD LONG
OPRAH COLIN POWELL AND SAM
WITH WELL-KNOWN FIGURES LIKE
WALLTON IN THIS YEAR'S
OPRAH COLIN POWELL AND SAM
NATIONAL BOOK AWARD WINNER
WALLTON IN THIS YEAR'S
FOR NONFICTION, THE
NATIONAL BOOK AWARD WINNER
UNWINDING, A STORY OF
FOR NONFICTION, THE
AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS AND
UNWINDING, A STORY OF
PEOPLE COMING UNDONE AMID
AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS AND
LARGE SCALE ECONOMIC AND
PEOPLE COMING UNDONE AMID
SOCIAL CHANGES.
LARGE SCALE ECONOMIC AND
AUTHOR GEORGE IS A STAFF
SOCIAL CHANGES.
WRITER, JOIN US NOW AND
AUTHOR GEORGE IS A STAFF
CONGRATULATIONS.
WRITER, JOIN US NOW AND
>> THANK YOU.
CONGRATULATIONS.
THE UNWINDING IN BROAD TERMS,
>> THANK YOU.
IT'S A BREAKDOWN OF
THE UNWINDING IN BROAD TERMS,
INSTITUTIONS, RIGHT?
IT'S A BREAKDOWN OF
THINGS THAT USED TO WORK BUT
INSTITUTIONS, RIGHT?
NO LONGER DO.
THINGS THAT USED TO WORK BUT
>> AND SOCIAL CONTRACT THAT
NO LONGER DO.
SORT OF UNDERWROTE ALL OF
>> AND SOCIAL CONTRACT THAT
THEM.
SORT OF UNDERWROTE ALL OF
A CONTRACT THAT SAID IF YOU
THEM.
WORK HARD, IF YOU
A CONTRACT THAT SAID IF YOU
ESSENTIALLY ARE A GOOD
WORK HARD, IF YOU
CITIZEN, THERE WILL BE A
ESSENTIALLY ARE A GOOD
PLACE FOR YOU, NOT ONLY AN
CITIZEN, THERE WILL BE A
ECONOMIC PLACE, YOU'LL HAVE
PLACE FOR YOU, NOT ONLY AN
A SECURITY LIFE, YOUR KIDS
ECONOMIC PLACE, YOU'LL HAVE
WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO HAVE A
A SECURITY LIFE, YOUR KIDS
BETTER LIFE BUT WILL IT BE
WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO HAVE A
RECOGNIZED AS PART OF THE
BETTER LIFE BUT WILL IT BE
NATIONAL FABRIC?
RECOGNIZED AS PART OF THE
AND OVER THE GENERATION OF
NATIONAL FABRIC?
MY ADULT LIFE GOING BACK TO
AND OVER THE GENERATION OF
THE LATE 70s, THAT FABRIC
MY ADULT LIFE GOING BACK TO
HAS COME UNRAVELED AND THE
THE LATE 70s, THAT FABRIC
CONTRACT HAS ESSENTIALLY
HAS COME UNRAVELED AND THE
BEEN TORN UP.
CONTRACT HAS ESSENTIALLY
>> Brown: HOW WHAT HAPPENED?
BEEN TORN UP.
>> IT'S COMPLICATED.
>> Brown: HOW WHAT HAPPENED?
SOME OF IT WAS THESE GIANT
>> IT'S COMPLICATED.
BLIND FORCES LIKE
SOME OF IT WAS THESE GIANT
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND
BLIND FORCES LIKE
GLOBALIZATION.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND
SOME OF IT WAS DECISIONS
GLOBALIZATION.
MADE IN CENTERS OF POWER
SOME OF IT WAS DECISIONS
LIKE WASHINGTON AND WALL
MADE IN CENTERS OF POWER
STREET WHERE THE IDEA THAT
LIKE WASHINGTON AND WALL
YOU COULDN'T AFFORD TO HAVE
STREET WHERE THE IDEA THAT
AN UNDERPAID WORKFORCE OR A
YOU COULDN'T AFFORD TO HAVE
WORKFORCE THAT FELT
AN UNDERPAID WORKFORCE OR A
IMPERILED BECAUSE YOU NEEDED
WORKFORCE THAT FELT
TO HAVE THEM AT THE TABLE
IMPERILED BECAUSE YOU NEEDED
WITH YOU, THAT BEGAN TO
TO HAVE THEM AT THE TABLE
DISAPPEAR.
WITH YOU, THAT BEGAN TO
AND INSTEAD WORKERS BECAME
DISAPPEAR.
DISPOSABLE.
AND INSTEAD WORKERS BECAME
THEIR WAGES FLATTENED OUT.
DISPOSABLE.
AND THE BENEFITS OF OUR FREE
THEIR WAGES FLATTENED OUT.
ENTERPRISE SYSTEM WENT MORE
AND THE BENEFITS OF OUR FREE
AND MORE TO THE TOP.
ENTERPRISE SYSTEM WENT MORE
AND SO WE HAVE MORE OF A
AND MORE TO THE TOP.
SOCIETY OF WINNERS AND
AND SO WE HAVE MORE OF A
LOSERS.
SOCIETY OF WINNERS AND
>> SO LARGE SCALE CHANGES
LOSERS.
BUT YOU BEING A REPORTER
>> SO LARGE SCALE CHANGES
YOUR WAY IS THROUGH
BUT YOU BEING A REPORTER
INDIVIDUALS.
YOUR WAY IS THROUGH
>> YEAH.
INDIVIDUALS.
>> SO YOU PROFILED MANY
>> YEAH.
AVERAGE AMERICANS, I GUESS
>> SO YOU PROFILED MANY
WE WOULD CALL THEM, LITTLE
AVERAGE AMERICANS, I GUESS
KNOWN PEOPLE.
WE WOULD CALL THEM, LITTLE
YOU MENTIONED FACTORY
KNOWN PEOPLE.
WORKERS, FOR EXAMPLE TAMMY
YOU MENTIONED FACTORY
THOMAS IS ONE OF THEM,
WORKERS, FOR EXAMPLE TAMMY
RIGHT.
THOMAS IS ONE OF THEM,
>> YEAH, SHE'S A BLACK WOMAN
RIGHT.
IN YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO, WHO ALL
>> YEAH, SHE'S A BLACK WOMAN
THE CHARACTERS IN THE BOOK
IN YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO, WHO ALL
ARE ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
THE CHARACTERS IN THE BOOK
GENERATION.
ARE ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
THEY ARE IN MIDLIFE.
GENERATION.
THEY'VE LIVED THROUGH THESE
THEY ARE IN MIDLIFE.
CHANGES OVER THE LAST
THEY'VE LIVED THROUGH THESE
GENERATION.
CHANGES OVER THE LAST
SHE WAS BORN IN THE MID 60s.
GENERATION.
HER MOTHER WAS A HEROIN
SHE WAS BORN IN THE MID 60s.
ADDICT.
HER MOTHER WAS A HEROIN
SHE WAS RAISED BY HER GREAT
ADDICT.
GRAND MOTHER WHO
SHE WAS RAISED BY HER GREAT
INSTALE-- INSTILLED A SENSE
GRAND MOTHER WHO
OF RESPONSIBILITY AND WORK
INSTALE-- INSTILLED A SENSE
ETHIC IN HER.
OF RESPONSIBILITY AND WORK
AND SHE SOMEHOW IN SPITE OF
ETHIC IN HER.
THE PROBLEMS OF BEING A
AND SHE SOMEHOW IN SPITE OF
TEENAGE MOTHER AND OF
THE PROBLEMS OF BEING A
YOUNGSTOWN DISINTEGRATING
TEENAGE MOTHER AND OF
AROUND HER WITH THE COLLAPSE
YOUNGSTOWN DISINTEGRATING
OF THE STEEL INDUSTRY IN THE
AROUND HER WITH THE COLLAPSE
LATE 70s, SHE NONETHELESS BY
OF THE STEEL INDUSTRY IN THE
GETTING ONE OF THE LARGE
LATE 70s, SHE NONETHELESS BY
GOOD BLUE COLLAR JOBS IN AN
GETTING ONE OF THE LARGE
AUTO PARTS FACTORY, SHE
GOOD BLUE COLLAR JOBS IN AN
RAISED THREE KIDS BY HERSELF
AUTO PARTS FACTORY, SHE
AND SHIELDED THEM FROM THE
RAISED THREE KIDS BY HERSELF
WINDS BUFFETING AND AS SHE
AND SHIELDED THEM FROM THE
SAID TO ME OVER AND OVER, MEANS
WINDS BUFFETING AND AS SHE
SHE WAS ABLE TO PROVIDE A
SAID TO ME OVER AND OVER, MEANS
DECENT LIFE FOR HER
SHE WAS ABLE TO PROVIDE A
CHILDREN.
DECENT LIFE FOR HER
>> UNTIL SHE COULDN'T.
CHILDREN.
>> AND THEN THE AUTO PARTS
>> UNTIL SHE COULDN'T.
MANUFACTURER DID WHAT SO
>> AND THEN THE AUTO PARTS
MANY MANUFACTURERS HAVE DONE,
MANUFACTURER DID WHAT SO
BEGAN OUTSOURCING THE JOBS
MANY MANUFACTURERS HAVE DONE,
TO MEXICO, DECLARED A KIND
BEGAN OUTSOURCING THE JOBS
OF STRATEGIC BANKRUPTCY IN
TO MEXICO, DECLARED A KIND
ORDER TO GET OUT OF ITS
OF STRATEGIC BANKRUPTCY IN
LABOR CONTRACTS AND THEN SHE
ORDER TO GET OUT OF ITS
FOUND HERSELF IN MIDLIFE
LABOR CONTRACTS AND THEN SHE
WITHOUT A JOB, WITHOUT A
FOUND HERSELF IN MIDLIFE
DIRECTION.
WITHOUT A JOB, WITHOUT A
AND SHE REMADE HERSELF.
DIRECTION.
>> YOU KNOW N MANY WAYS IT'S
AND SHE REMADE HERSELF.
A FAMILIAR STORY.
>> YOU KNOW N MANY WAYS IT'S
IT'S ONE WE LOOK AT A LOT IN
A FAMILIAR STORY.
THIS PROGRAM OF WHAT
IT'S ONE WE LOOK AT A LOT IN
HAPPENED TO RUST BELT AREAS.
THIS PROGRAM OF WHAT
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU'RE
HAPPENED TO RUST BELT AREAS.
DOING, THOUGH, I GUESS IS
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU'RE
MAKING THE DECISIONS-- WELL,
DOING, THOUGH, I GUESS IS
YOU'RE STARTING THE
MAKING THE DECISIONS-- WELL,
DISCONNECTION.
YOU'RE STARTING THE
ONE THING THAT INTERESTS ME
DISCONNECTION.
IS YOU SAY THERE IS MORE
ONE THING THAT INTERESTS ME
FREEDOM IN A SENSE IN
IS YOU SAY THERE IS MORE
AMERICA TODAY, BUT THAT
FREEDOM IN A SENSE IN
FREEDOM IS A NEGATIVE T IS
AMERICA TODAY, BUT THAT
DISCONNECTED.
FREEDOM IS A NEGATIVE T IS
>> YEAH, I MEAN WE HAVE MORE
DISCONNECTED.
FREEDOM.
>> YEAH, I MEAN WE HAVE MORE
WE HAVE MORE CHOICES.
FREEDOM.
WE'RE OVERWHELMED WITH
WE HAVE MORE CHOICES.
CHOICES.
WE'RE OVERWHELMED WITH
WE HAVE MORE INCLUSIVENESS.
CHOICES.
WE HAVE A MORE TOLERANT
WE HAVE MORE INCLUSIVENESS.
SOCIETY.
WE HAVE A MORE TOLERANT
MORE AMERICANS HAVE THE
SOCIETY.
THEORETICAL CHANCE OF BEING
MORE AMERICANS HAVE THE
SORT OF ADMITTED INTO THE
THEORETICAL CHANCE OF BEING
WORLD OF OPPORTUNITY.
SORT OF ADMITTED INTO THE
BUT WE'RE ALSO MORE
WORLD OF OPPORTUNITY.
STRATIFIED.
BUT WE'RE ALSO MORE
SO SOCIAL EQUALITY, GROWING
STRATIFIED.
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY AT THE
SO SOCIAL EQUALITY, GROWING
SAME TIME.
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY AT THE
AND TO UNDERSTAND IT I
SAME TIME.
WANTED TO FIND STORIES FROM
AND TO UNDERSTAND IT I
VERY DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
WANTED TO FIND STORIES FROM
COUNTRY.
VERY DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
THE RUST BELT FROM THE RURAL
COUNTRY.
SOUTH, FROM WASHINGTON AND
THE RUST BELT FROM THE RURAL
GOVERNMENT AND FROM SILICON
SOUTH, FROM WASHINGTON AND
VALLEY.
GOVERNMENT AND FROM SILICON
BECAUSE IT REALLY IS A KIND
VALLEY.
OF DIVISION INTO THOSE WHO
BECAUSE IT REALLY IS A KIND
ARE MAKING IT VERY WELL AND
OF DIVISION INTO THOSE WHO
THOSE WHO IN SPITE OF
ARE MAKING IT VERY WELL AND
WORKING HARD AND IN SPITE OF
THOSE WHO IN SPITE OF
THEIR OWN INVENTIVENESS FIND
WORKING HARD AND IN SPITE OF
THEMSELVES REALLY STRUGGLING.
THEIR OWN INVENTIVENESS FIND
>> Woodruff: .
THEMSELVES REALLY STRUGGLING.
>> Brown: AND ONE OF THE
>> Woodruff: .
THINGS THAT CONNECTS ALL OF
>> Brown: AND ONE OF THE
THOSE PLACES AND THE
THINGS THAT CONNECTS ALL OF
INSTITUTIONS IS A IT IS A
THOSE PLACES AND THE
BREAKDOWN OF INSTITUTIONS
INSTITUTIONS IS A IT IS A
BUT IT'S ALSO MONEY THAT
BREAKDOWN OF INSTITUTIONS
CONNECTS A LOT OF THEM.
BUT IT'S ALSO MONEY THAT
BUT MONEY WITHOUT THE KIND
CONNECTS A LOT OF THEM.
OF SOCIAL CONTRACT OR ETHIC
BUT MONEY WITHOUT THE KIND
THAT YOU ARE SAYING ONCE WAS
OF SOCIAL CONTRACT OR ETHIC
THERE.
THAT YOU ARE SAYING ONCE WAS
>> YEAH, I MEAN THE GAINS,
THERE.
THE POTENTIAL GAINS ARE SO
>> YEAH, I MEAN THE GAINS,
HUGE.
THE POTENTIAL GAINS ARE SO
WE NO LONGER BLINK AT THE
HUGE.
NOTION OF A BRAND-NEW
WE NO LONGER BLINK AT THE
START-UP BEING SOLD TO A
NOTION OF A BRAND-NEW
COMPANY FOR A BILLION
START-UP BEING SOLD TO A
DOLLARS, WITHOUT ANY PROFITS,
COMPANY FOR A BILLION
WITH HARDLY EVEN REVENUES.
DOLLARS, WITHOUT ANY PROFITS,
AND ON THE OTHER END, THERE
WITH HARDLY EVEN REVENUES.
IS A FAMILY IN TAMPA THAT I
AND ON THE OTHER END, THERE
WROTE ABOUT, THE HARTSOLS
IS A FAMILY IN TAMPA THAT I
ARE THE ENTIRE MAINSTAY OF
WROTE ABOUT, THE HARTSOLS
THAT FAMILY IS A PART-TIME
ARE THE ENTIRE MAINSTAY OF
JOB STOCKING PRODUCE AT
THAT FAMILY IS A PART-TIME
WAL-MART FOR $8.25 OR 8.50
JOB STOCKING PRODUCE AT
AN HOUR WHICH FOR 25 HOURS A
WAL-MART FOR $8.25 OR 8.50
WEEK YOU CANNOT LIVE ON
AN HOUR WHICH FOR 25 HOURS A
THAT.
WEEK YOU CANNOT LIVE ON
SO AND THERE'S A SENSE IN
THAT.
WHICH THE FAMILY IS TOTALLY
SO AND THERE'S A SENSE IN
ALONE, THE INSTITUTIONS THAT
WHICH THE FAMILY IS TOTALLY
MIGHT HAVE ONCE TAKEN CARE
ALONE, THE INSTITUTIONS THAT
OF THEM ARE PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
MIGHT HAVE ONCE TAKEN CARE
CIVIC ASSOCIATIONS AND
OF THEM ARE PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATIONS,
CIVIC ASSOCIATIONS AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENT, A
NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATIONS,
CORPORATION THAT MIGHT HAVE
LOCAL GOVERNMENT, A
PROVIDED A SECURE JOB, THOSE
CORPORATION THAT MIGHT HAVE
ARE ALL GONE.
PROVIDED A SECURE JOB, THOSE
AND THEY'RE ON THEIR OWN.
ARE ALL GONE.
>> Brown: I KNOW YOUR WORK
AND THEY'RE ON THEIR OWN.
FROM THE NEW YORKER AND YOU
>> Brown: I KNOW YOUR WORK
HAVE WRITTEN OTHER
FROM THE NEW YORKER AND YOU
NONFICTION WORKS, I DIDN'T
HAVE WRITTEN OTHER
KNOW YOU HAVE WRITTEN
NONFICTION WORKS, I DIDN'T
FICTION, PLAYING, THIS BOOK
KNOW YOU HAVE WRITTEN
IS KIND EVER A MOSAIC OF
FICTION, PLAYING, THIS BOOK
STYLES IN SOME SENSE, RIGHT,
IS KIND EVER A MOSAIC OF
THE PROFILES OF PEOPLE, SOME
STYLES IN SOME SENSE, RIGHT,
FAMOUS PEOPLE.
THE PROFILES OF PEOPLE, SOME
YOU INCLUDE HEADLINES, SONG
FAMOUS PEOPLE.
LYRICS TO SORT OF
YOU INCLUDE HEADLINES, SONG
CHARACTERIZE OR PORTRAY A
LYRICS TO SORT OF
MOMENT.
CHARACTERIZE OR PORTRAY A
WHAT, HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT
MOMENT.
APPROACHING THIS AS A
WHAT, HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT
WRITER?
APPROACHING THIS AS A
>> THAT WAS THE HARDEST
WRITER?
THING.
>> THAT WAS THE HARDEST
BECAUSE A LOT OF GOOD BOOKS
THING.
HAVE BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT THE
BECAUSE A LOT OF GOOD BOOKS
FRAYING OF THE SOCIAL
HAVE BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT THE
CONTRACT, ABOUT INEQUALITY
FRAYING OF THE SOCIAL
IN THE MIDDLE CLASS.
CONTRACT, ABOUT INEQUALITY
I DIDN'T WANT TO ADD TO
IN THE MIDDLE CLASS.
THAT.
I DIDN'T WANT TO ADD TO
I REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
THAT.
ANYTHING TO ADD TO IT I
I REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
DON'T HAVE A NEW THEORY.
ANYTHING TO ADD TO IT I
I DON'T HAVE A LOT OF NEW
DON'T HAVE A NEW THEORY.
DATA.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT OF NEW
WHAT I THOUGHT I COULD DO IS
DATA.
GET THE READER INTO THE
WHAT I THOUGHT I COULD DO IS
NERVOUS SYSTEM OF AMERICANS
GET THE READER INTO THE
OVER THE LAST GENERATION.
NERVOUS SYSTEM OF AMERICANS
AND TO DO THAT IT MEANT NOT
OVER THE LAST GENERATION.
JUST FINDING THESE ODE
AND TO DO THAT IT MEANT NOT
PEOPLE IN FORGOTTEN PLACES
JUST FINDING THESE ODE
BUT ALSO CONVEYING WHAT IT'S
PEOPLE IN FORGOTTEN PLACES
LIKE TO BE A CELEBRITY.
BUT ALSO CONVEYING WHAT IT'S
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE AT THE
LIKE TO BE A CELEBRITY.
TOP OF OUR SOCIETY.
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE AT THE
SO OPRAH IS A CHARACTER IN
TOP OF OUR SOCIETY.
MY BOOK, NEWT GINGRICH IS A
SO OPRAH IS A CHARACTER IN
CHARACTER IN MY BOOK.
MY BOOK, NEWT GINGRICH IS A
AND TO WRITE ABOUT THEM, I
CHARACTER IN MY BOOK.
DIDN'T GO AND TRY TOO
AND TO WRITE ABOUT THEM, I
INTERVIEW THEM BECAUSE THERE
DIDN'T GO AND TRY TOO
ARE JUST TOO MANY LAYERS OF
INTERVIEW THEM BECAUSE THERE
PR BETWEEN ME AND HIM AND I
ARE JUST TOO MANY LAYERS OF
WOULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN MUCH
PR BETWEEN ME AND HIM AND I
OUT OF TESTIMONY.
WOULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN MUCH
INSTEAD I USE THEIR WORDS,
OUT OF TESTIMONY.
WRITINGS, AND INTERVIEWS AND
INSTEAD I USE THEIR WORDS,
WROTE IN A SORT OF STYLE
WRITINGS, AND INTERVIEWS AND
THAT YOU MIGHT CALL FREE AND
WROTE IN A SORT OF STYLE
DIRECT DISCOURSE WHICH IS A
THAT YOU MIGHT CALL FREE AND
TECHNICAL TERM FOR IT, WHICH
DIRECT DISCOURSE WHICH IS A
KIND OF MIMICS THEIR WAY OF
TECHNICAL TERM FOR IT, WHICH
TALKING ABOUT THEMSELVES.
KIND OF MIMICS THEIR WAY OF
IT USES THEIR LANGUAGE.
TALKING ABOUT THEMSELVES.
THEIR RHYTHMS, IN ORDER TO
IT USES THEIR LANGUAGE.
SHOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING TO
THEIR RHYTHMS, IN ORDER TO
THE LANGUAGE AND HOW, FOR
SHOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING TO
EXAMPLE, NEWT GINGRICH
THE LANGUAGE AND HOW, FOR
INVENTED A VOCABULARY OF
EXAMPLE, NEWT GINGRICH
POLITICAL POLARIZATION IN
INVENTED A VOCABULARY OF
ORDER TO HELP CANDIDATES GET
POLITICAL POLARIZATION IN
ELECTED.
ORDER TO HELP CANDIDATES GET
>> IT TELLS US SOMETHING
ELECTED.
ABOUT THIS MOMENT.
>> IT TELLS US SOMETHING
>> IT BECOMES A CULTURAL
ABOUT THIS MOMENT.
INDICATOR AND I HAVE THESE
>> IT BECOMES A CULTURAL
MASHUP OF HEADLINES AND
INDICATOR AND I HAVE THESE
SONGS AS YOU SAID TO GAT
MASHUP OF HEADLINES AND
MIND-SET LIKE AT A
SONGS AS YOU SAID TO GAT
PARTICULAR MOMENT.
MIND-SET LIKE AT A
AND I OWE SOMETHING TO THE
PARTICULAR MOMENT.
NOVELS OF JOHN DOSPASOS
AND I OWE SOMETHING TO THE
BECAUSE I HAD ALL THIS
NOVELS OF JOHN DOSPASOS
MATERIAL, AND ALL THESE
BECAUSE I HAD ALL THIS
DIFFERENT AMERICAN STORIES.
MATERIAL, AND ALL THESE
AND TO FIGURE OUT A
DIFFERENT AMERICAN STORIES.
STRUCTURE WAS THE HARDEST
AND TO FIGURE OUT A
PART OF ALL.
STRUCTURE WAS THE HARDEST
AND I FINALLY DECIDED WHY
PART OF ALL.
NOT SOMETHING REALLY KIND OF
AND I FINALLY DECIDED WHY
INNOVATIVE, SOMETHING THAT
NOT SOMETHING REALLY KIND OF
YOU DON'T FIND IN
INNOVATIVE, SOMETHING THAT
TRADITIONAL NONFICTION
YOU DON'T FIND IN
WRITING.
TRADITIONAL NONFICTION
AND I TURNED TO A FICTIONAL
WRITING.
SOURCE FOR INSPIRATION.
AND I TURNED TO A FICTIONAL
>> ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
SOURCE FOR INSPIRATION.
CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
>> ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
ON-LINE, FOR NOW THE NEW
CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
BOOK IS IS THE UNWINDING.
ON-LINE, FOR NOW THE NEW
GEORGE PACK CERT WINNER OF
BOOK IS IS THE UNWINDING.
THE NATIONAL BOOK AWARD,
GEORGE PACK CERT WINNER OF
CONGRATULATIONS, THANKS FOR
THE NATIONAL BOOK AWARD,
TALKING TO US.
CONGRATULATIONS, THANKS FOR
>> THANK YOU.
TALKING TO US.
S
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
S
THE HOLIDAYS ARE A TIME WHEN
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
FAMILIES GATHER TO CELEBRATE AND
THE HOLIDAYS ARE A TIME WHEN
OFTEN REMEMBER LOVED ONES NO
FAMILIES GATHER TO CELEBRATE AND
LONGER WITH US.
OFTEN REMEMBER LOVED ONES NO
FRED DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON
LONGER WITH US.
ONE GROUP TRYING TO REVIVE THE
FRED DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON
LEGACY OF RELATIVES FORGOTTEN AT
ONE GROUP TRYING TO REVIVE THE
A MENTAL HOSPITAL IN MINNESOTA
LEGACY OF RELATIVES FORGOTTEN AT
>> ONE SOLITARY CROSS IS ALL
A MENTAL HOSPITAL IN MINNESOTA
THAT SUGGESTS THAT THIS IS A
>> ONE SOLITARY CROSS IS ALL
CEMETERY AND PERHAPS THAT'S
THAT SUGGESTS THAT THIS IS A
FITTING.
CEMETERY AND PERHAPS THAT'S
THERE ARE SEVERAL HUNDRED
FITTING.
PEOPLE BURIED HERE SPENT
THERE ARE SEVERAL HUNDRED
MOST OF THEIR LIVES
PEOPLE BURIED HERE SPENT
INVISIBLE TO THE OUTSIDE
MOST OF THEIR LIVES
WORLD.
INVISIBLE TO THE OUTSIDE
THERE ARE NO HEADSTONES IN
WORLD.
THIS BURIAL GROUND-OF-A
THERE ARE NO HEADSTONES IN
FORMER MINNESOTA MENTAL
THIS BURIAL GROUND-OF-A
INSTITUTION.
FORMER MINNESOTA MENTAL
THE GRAVES ARE MARKED NOT
INSTITUTION.
WITH NAMES, JUST NUMBERS.
THE GRAVES ARE MARKED NOT
THE RELATIVES HAD TO GO
WITH NAMES, JUST NUMBERS.
THROUGH HISTORICAL ARCHIVES
THE RELATIVES HAD TO GO
TO FIND HER NUMBER.
THROUGH HISTORICAL ARCHIVES
A FEW YEARS AGO A DISABILITY
TO FIND HER NUMBER.
RIGHTS GROUP BEGAN WORKING
A FEW YEARS AGO A DISABILITY
TO CHANGE THIS THEIR PROJECT
RIGHTS GROUP BEGAN WORKING
IS CALLED REMEMBERING THE
TO CHANGE THIS THEIR PROJECT
DIGNITY.
IS CALLED REMEMBERING THE
>> WE'RE HERE TODAY TO
DIGNITY.
REMEMBER AND HONOR ALBERTINE
>> WE'RE HERE TODAY TO
AN I HAVE TO MAKE SURE I SAY
REMEMBER AND HONOR ALBERTINE
HER NAME RIGHT POTRUS.
AN I HAVE TO MAKE SURE I SAY
>> RECENTLY ON A CHILLY
HER NAME RIGHT POTRUS.
MINNESOTA MORNING THEY
>> RECENTLY ON A CHILLY
GATHERED AT THE CEMETERY TO
MINNESOTA MORNING THEY
HONOR THE LONG DEPARTED
GATHERED AT THE CEMETERY TO
GREAT AUNT.
HONOR THE LONG DEPARTED
HE ONLY LEARNED THAT SHE
GREAT AUNT.
EXISTED A FEW YEARS AGO
HE ONLY LEARNED THAT SHE
WHILE DOGIN A GENEALOGY
EXISTED A FEW YEARS AGO
SEARCH.
WHILE DOGIN A GENEALOGY
THEN HE CONFIRMED IT WITH
SEARCH.
HIS 89-YEAR-OLD AUNT WHO WAS
THEN HE CONFIRMED IT WITH
A NIECE.
HIS 89-YEAR-OLD AUNT WHO WAS
>> YOU GO THROUGH DIFFERENT
A NIECE.
EMOTIONS.
>> YOU GO THROUGH DIFFERENT
YOU GO HOW COME YOUR FAMILY
EMOTIONS.
MEMBER DIDN'T EVEN TELL YOU
YOU GO HOW COME YOUR FAMILY
ABOUT THIS PERSON.
MEMBER DIDN'T EVEN TELL YOU
AND THEN JUST TO BE BURIED
ABOUT THIS PERSON.
AS A NUMBER.
AND THEN JUST TO BE BURIED
>> I REMEMBER HER.
AS A NUMBER.
SHE LIVED WITH US OUT ON THE
>> I REMEMBER HER.
FARM.
SHE LIVED WITH US OUT ON THE
>> THAT MEMORY IS ALL THIS
FARM.
FAMILY HAS.
>> THAT MEMORY IS ALL THIS
THERE ARE NO PHOTOGRAPHS OF
FAMILY HAS.
HER, BORN IN 1898 WITH
THERE ARE NO PHOTOGRAPHS OF
MENTAL RETARDATION.
HER, BORN IN 1898 WITH
IN 1932 AS FAMILIES
MENTAL RETARDATION.
STRUGGLED TO SURVIVE THE
IN 1932 AS FAMILIES
DEPRESSION SHE BECAME A
STRUGGLED TO SURVIVE THE
BURDEN NEITHER HER AGING
DEPRESSION SHE BECAME A
PARES NNTOR HER SIBLINGS
BURDEN NEITHER HER AGING
COULD ENDURE.
PARES NNTOR HER SIBLINGS
>> WE HAD-- HIRED, SHE
COULD ENDURE.
ALWAYS THOUGHT THE HIRED MEN
>> WE HAD-- HIRED, SHE
WOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MY
ALWAYS THOUGHT THE HIRED MEN
AUNT BECAUSE SHE WAS
WOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MY
FEEBLEMINDED.
AUNT BECAUSE SHE WAS
>> AT 34 SHE WAS COMMITTED
FEEBLEMINDED.
TO THE SCHOOL FOR THE
>> AT 34 SHE WAS COMMITTED
FEEBLEMINDED.
TO THE SCHOOL FOR THE
IN MINNESOTA.
FEEBLEMINDED.
SHE BECAME A WARD OF THE
IN MINNESOTA.
STATE.
SHE BECAME A WARD OF THE
>> THE FACILITY NAME HAS
STATE.
CHANGED OVER THE YEARS
>> THE FACILITY NAME HAS
REFLECTING SOCIETY'S
CHANGED OVER THE YEARS
EVOLVING VIEWS OF PEOPLE
REFLECTING SOCIETY'S
WITH MENTAL ILLNESS AN RETAR
EVOLVING VIEWS OF PEOPLE
NATION.
WITH MENTAL ILLNESS AN RETAR
IN THE 1800 IT IS WHAT THE
NATION.
SCHOOL FOR DEAF, DUMB, BLIND,
IN THE 1800 IT IS WHAT THE
IDIOTS AND IMWE STYLES,
SCHOOL FOR DEAF, DUMB, BLIND,
FEEBLE MEND AMED IN THE
IDIOTS AND IMWE STYLES,
EARLY 1900 AND IN THE 50s
FEEBLE MEND AMED IN THE
THE STATE HOSPITAL.
EARLY 1900 AND IN THE 50s
NODE IT IS A MINIMUM
THE STATE HOSPITAL.
SECURITY PRISON.
NODE IT IS A MINIMUM
IT WAS CONSIDERED AN
SECURITY PRISON.
INNOVATION WHEN IT WAS
IT WAS CONSIDERED AN
FOUNDED, AN ATTEMPT TO
INNOVATION WHEN IT WAS
EDUCATE THE MENTALLY
FOUNDED, AN ATTEMPT TO
DISABLED.
EDUCATE THE MENTALLY
BUT IN TIME REMEMBERING THE
DISABLED.
DIGNITIES MARY KAY KENNEDY
BUT IN TIME REMEMBERING THE
SAYS THAT EARLY MISSION WAS
DIGNITIES MARY KAY KENNEDY
FORGOTTEN.
SAYS THAT EARLY MISSION WAS
>> THE PIECE OF POPULATION
FORGOTTEN.
AT THIS SITE WAS IN THE
>> THE PIECE OF POPULATION
1950s AND IT HOUSED 3,355
AT THIS SITE WAS IN THE
PEOPLE WHICH WAS ABOUT 45%
1950s AND IT HOUSED 3,355
OVERCAPACITY.
PEOPLE WHICH WAS ABOUT 45%
SO THERE IS NO EDUCATION.
OVERCAPACITY.
SO IT REALLY TURNED INTO A
SO THERE IS NO EDUCATION.
FACILITY THAT WAS TAKING
SO IT REALLY TURNED INTO A
CARE OF THE PHYSICAL, BASIC
FACILITY THAT WAS TAKING
PHYSICAL NEED ITS OF THE
CARE OF THE PHYSICAL, BASIC
PEOPLE WHO LIVED HERE.
PHYSICAL NEED ITS OF THE
>> FOR PEOPLE WHO DIED HERE,
PEOPLE WHO LIVED HERE.
FUNERALS WERE BASIC
>> FOR PEOPLE WHO DIED HERE,
BUSINESS-LIKE AFFAIRS.
FUNERALS WERE BASIC
BLAIR SAYS NOTICE OF
BUSINESS-LIKE AFFAIRS.
ALBERTINE DEATH WAS SENT NOT
BLAIR SAYS NOTICE OF
TO THE FAMILY FIRST BUT TO
ALBERTINE DEATH WAS SENT NOT
THE WELFARE DEPARTMENT
TO THE FAMILY FIRST BUT TO
SUPERVISOR.
THE WELFARE DEPARTMENT
>> DEAR MR. CAYLER THIS IS
SUPERVISOR.
TO NOTIFY HUH THAT ALBERTINE
>> DEAR MR. CAYLER THIS IS
DIED AT 8:25 P.M. ON
TO NOTIFY HUH THAT ALBERTINE
FEBRUARY 4th, 1958, IN THE
DIED AT 8:25 P.M. ON
INSTITUTIONAL HOSPITAL.
FEBRUARY 4th, 1958, IN THE
CAUSE OF DEATH, WAS CEREBRAL
INSTITUTIONAL HOSPITAL.
HEMORRHAGE.
CAUSE OF DEATH, WAS CEREBRAL
TEN HOURS, AR TEARIAL
HEMORRHAGE.
SCLEROSIS, 20 YEARS,
TEN HOURS, AR TEARIAL
MENTALLY DEFICIENT, IDIOT,
SCLEROSIS, 20 YEARS,
CAUSE UNDIAGNOSED.
MENTALLY DEFICIENT, IDIOT,
>> THEY DIDN'T TREAT US
CAUSE UNDIAGNOSED.
PEOPLE VERY NICE, THEY
>> THEY DIDN'T TREAT US
DIDN'T TREAT US PEOPLE WITH
PEOPLE VERY NICE, THEY
NO KINDNESS, NO RESPECT OR
DIDN'T TREAT US PEOPLE WITH
NOTHING.
NO KINDNESS, NO RESPECT OR
>> AT THE CEMETERY FORMER
NOTHING.
RESIDENTS REFLECTED ON THEIR
>> AT THE CEMETERY FORMER
TIME THERE, LARRY SPENT TEN
RESIDENTS REFLECTED ON THEIR
YEARS HERE.
TIME THERE, LARRY SPENT TEN
HE WAS MOVED TO A GROUP HOME
YEARS HERE.
AS MENTAL HEALTH CARE
HE WAS MOVED TO A GROUP HOME
SHIFTED AWAY FROM LARGE
AS MENTAL HEALTH CARE
INSTITUTIONS.
SHIFTED AWAY FROM LARGE
DOROTHY ANDERSON WAS
INSTITUTIONS.
COMMITTED AS AN INFANT.
DOROTHY ANDERSON WAS
>> I DIDN'T KNOW MY MOTHER.
COMMITTED AS AN INFANT.
OR IF SHE WAS MARRIED.
>> I DIDN'T KNOW MY MOTHER.
OR MY GRANDMA.
OR IF SHE WAS MARRIED.
I DIDN'T-- AND I DIDN'T HAVE
OR MY GRANDMA.
NO PICTURES TO REMEMBER THEM
I DIDN'T-- AND I DIDN'T HAVE
BY.
NO PICTURES TO REMEMBER THEM
>> THIS GROUP SUCCESSFULLY
BY.
LOBBIED MINNESOTA'S
>> THIS GROUP SUCCESSFULLY
LEGISLATURE WHICH IN 2010
LOBBIED MINNESOTA'S
OFFICIALLY APOLOGIZED FOR
LEGISLATURE WHICH IN 2010
THE PAST TREATMENT OF STATE
OFFICIALLY APOLOGIZED FOR
HOSPITAL PATIENTS.
THE PAST TREATMENT OF STATE
>> THE APOLOGY EXTENDS TO
HOSPITAL PATIENTS.
FAMILY, PROFESSIONALS ADVISE
>> THE APOLOGY EXTENDS TO
PEOPLE TO BREAK TIES WITH
FAMILY, PROFESSIONALS ADVISE
THE FAMILY.
PEOPLE TO BREAK TIES WITH
AND THERE WERE NO OTHER
THE FAMILY.
SERVICES.
AND THERE WERE NO OTHER
SO IF YOU HAD A CHILD OR
SERVICES.
SOMEO WINETH A SEVERE
SO IF YOU HAD A CHILD OR
DISABILITY T WASN'T LIKE
SOMEO WINETH A SEVERE
TODAY WHERE YOU COULD GET
DISABILITY T WASN'T LIKE
SERVICES IN THE COMMUNITY.
TODAY WHERE YOU COULD GET
>> OTHERS HAVE A MORE
SERVICES IN THE COMMUNITY.
NUANCED VIEW OF HOW THE
>> OTHERS HAVE A MORE
TREATMENT OF MENTALLY
NUANCED VIEW OF HOW THE
DISABLED PEOPLE HAS SHIFTED
TREATMENT OF MENTALLY
OVER THE YEARS.
DISABLED PEOPLE HAS SHIFTED
GENE'S SISTER BARBARA DIED
OVER THE YEARS.
HERE IN 1958 AT THE AGE OF
GENE'S SISTER BARBARA DIED
5.
HERE IN 1958 AT THE AGE OF
>> I ANY WHEN YOU LOOK AT
5.
THE STATE OF MINNESOTA AND
>> I ANY WHEN YOU LOOK AT
SOME OF THE NEEDS OF THE
THE STATE OF MINNESOTA AND
HOMELESS WHO ARE MENTALLY
SOME OF THE NEEDS OF THE
ILL, INSTITUTIONS MIGHT BE A
HOMELESS WHO ARE MENTALLY
GOOD THING FOR THEM IT I
ILL, INSTITUTIONS MIGHT BE A
DON'T THINK EVERYBODY
GOOD THING FOR THEM IT I
BELONGS IN AN INSTITUTION.
DON'T THINK EVERYBODY
I THINK THERE IS A HAPPY
BELONGS IN AN INSTITUTION.
MEDIUM BUT I DONE THINK
I THINK THERE IS A HAPPY
SOCIETY HAS FOUND IT YET.
MEDIUM BUT I DONE THINK
>> THERE'S VERY LITTLE
SOCIETY HAS FOUND IT YET.
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT ADDING
>> THERE'S VERY LITTLE
NAMES AND GRAVESTONES TO THE
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT ADDING
NUMBERS HERE.
NAMES AND GRAVESTONES TO THE
>> A JEWISH SAYING IS THAT
NUMBERS HERE.
YOU DIE TWICHLTS YOU DIE,
>> A JEWISH SAYING IS THAT
ONCE WHEN DOW DIE BUT THE
YOU DIE TWICHLTS YOU DIE,
SECOND TIME YOU DIE IS WHEN
ONCE WHEN DOW DIE BUT THE
YOUR NAME ISN'T SPOKEN ANY
SECOND TIME YOU DIE IS WHEN
MORE.
YOUR NAME ISN'T SPOKEN ANY
>> SO FAR THE GROUP HAS
MORE.
INSTALLED ALMOST 7,000
>> SO FAR THE GROUP HAS
PERSONAL GRAVE STOERNS ON
INSTALLED ALMOST 7,000
THE 13,000 NUMBERED GRAVES
PERSONAL GRAVE STOERNS ON
THEY'VE DISCOVERED ACROSS
THE 13,000 NUMBERED GRAVES
THE STATE UNTIL NOW.
THEY'VE DISCOVERED ACROSS
WITH FUNDING FROM
THE STATE UNTIL NOW.
MINNESOTA'S LEGISLATURE.
WITH FUNDING FROM
WCHX A VERSION OF FRED'S
MINNESOTA'S LEGISLATURE.
STORY AIRED
WCHX A VERSION OF FRED'S
>> Wooduff: A VERSION OF FRED'S
STORY AIRED
STORY AIRED ON THE PBS PROGRAM
>> Wooduff: A VERSION OF FRED'S
"RELIGION AND ETHICS
STORY AIRED ON THE PBS PROGRAM
NEWSWEEKLY".
"RELIGION AND ETHICS
HIS REPORTING IS A PARTNERSHIP
NEWSWEEKLY".
WITH THE UNDER-TOLD STORIES
HIS REPORTING IS A PARTNERSHIP
PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
WITH THE UNDER-TOLD STORIES
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
OF THE DAY:
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
RETAILERS OPENED THE AFTER-
OF THE DAY:
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED THE
RETAILERS OPENED THE AFTER-
UNITED STATES HAS BEGUN SENDING
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED THE
HELLFIRE MISSILES AND
UNITED STATES HAS BEGUN SENDING
SURVEILLANCE DRONES TO IRAQ.
HELLFIRE MISSILES AND
THE GOVERNMENT THERE HAS ASKED
SURVEILLANCE DRONES TO IRAQ.
FOR HELP TO BATTLE RENEWED
THE GOVERNMENT THERE HAS ASKED
VIOLENCE BY AL-QAEDA MILITANTS.
FOR HELP TO BATTLE RENEWED
AND IN A VIDEO MESSAGE, AMERICAN
VIOLENCE BY AL-QAEDA MILITANTS.
WARREN WEINSTEIN APPEALED TO
AND IN A VIDEO MESSAGE, AMERICAN
PRESIDENT OBAMA TO NEGOTIATE HIS
WARREN WEINSTEIN APPEALED TO
RELEASE FROM AL-QAEDA KIDNAPPERS
PRESIDENT OBAMA TO NEGOTIATE HIS
IN PAKISTAN.
RELEASE FROM AL-QAEDA KIDNAPPERS
HE WAS ABDUCTED MORE THAN TWO
IN PAKISTAN.
YEARS AGO.
HE WAS ABDUCTED MORE THAN TWO
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
YEARS AGO.
NOW, 2013 PRODUCED SOME LANDMARK
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
CASES AT THE U.S. SUPREME COURT.
NOW, 2013 PRODUCED SOME LANDMARK
WHAT MAJOR DECISIONS CAN WE
CASES AT THE U.S. SUPREME COURT.
EXPECT FOR NE ANALYST AND NEWSHR
WHAT MAJOR DECISIONS CAN WE
REGULAR MARCIA COYLE TELLS US
EXPECT FOR NE ANALYST AND NEWSHR
WHAT SHE'LL BE WATCHING FOR IN
REGULAR MARCIA COYLE TELLS US
2014.
WHAT SHE'LL BE WATCHING FOR IN
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
2014.
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
TONIGHT.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
TONIGHT.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, WITH MARK
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON,
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, WITH MARK
AMONG OTHERS.
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON,
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
AMONG OTHERS.
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NIGHT.